Strategies/IITB_KPIs.md, before:

# IITB Key Performance Indicators (PKIs)

IT Strategies are meant to move IITB (and ESDC) towards the end state [Vision of the Canadian Experience](../TeamMandate/Mandate.md). The following KPIs will be used to measure those IT Strategies successes. Monitoring those KPIs will be used to adjust strategies as needed to ensure efforts are well invested and remain aligned with [IITB's high level priorities](http://esdc.prv/en/iitb/corporate/Who_We_Are/Plans_and_Priorities/index.shtml) that are to:

- Focus on the Core Business (of ESDC)
- Modernize IM/IT Service Delivery
- Be efficient in managing its operations
- Be connected with IM/IT partners and suppliers

## 1. **Percentage of ESDC Services consumable by APIs**

ESDC services provided to the public or to other departments will need to be delivered digitally. This means via APIs. This transformation to digital will be measured by the rate at which analogue services are changed to digital ones.

The indicator will be measured by using [ESDC's Service Catalogue](https://www.canada.ca/en/employment-social-development/corporate/portfolio/service-canada/programs.html) as reference point and monitor the rate at which they are transformed to digital

`percentage = digital services / total services`

## 2. **Rate of decrease in processing time of ESDC Services**

The processing time of ESDC services that are provided to the public or to other departments will be an indication of improvement. The measurement will be the reduction in time, not the time itself, focusing on continuous improvement rather than a hard target.

The indicator will be measured by using [ESDC's Service Catalogue](https://www.canada.ca/en/employment-social-development/corporate/portfolio/service-canada/programs.html) and monitor their total processing time from beginning to end. This amount, over time, will be monitored to indicate reduction in processing time.

`rate of service = (New Processing Time - Old Processing Time) / Old Processing Time`

## 3. **Reduction in toil of IITB and ESDC Services**

Toil is the kind of work tied to running a production service that tends to be manual, repetitive, automatable, tactical devoid of enduring value, and that scales linearly as a service grows. Processing  time of ESDC services may decrease by increasing manual labour but that would defeat the purpose of digital.

The indicator will be measured two ways:

1. For toil in IITB Services, using ??? and measure the ratio of X over Y. 

`ratio = X / Y`

2. For toil in ESDC Services, using the [ESDC's Service Catalogue](https://www.canada.ca/en/employment-social-development/corporate/portfolio/service-canada/programs.html) and measure the ratio of service requests to amount of personnel. 

`ratio = service requests / service personnel`

## 4. **Percentage of IITB services made available as SaaS**

IITB services currently offered, as catalogued in the ITSM Repository, will be offered as SaaS for IITB consumers. This transformation to SaaS provisioning and maintenance will be measured by the rate at which those services are changed to self-served ones. The measurement will look at [IITB's Service Catalogue](http://iservice.prv/eng/service_catalogues/imit_services.shtml), which is being modernized for 2020, as reference point and monitor their transformation to SaaS.

`percentage = SaaS / total ITSM services`

## 5. **Availability uptime of ESDC core systems**

Moving IITB into a service-oriented organization will require IITB to manage the complexity and growth of its services pro-actively. The measurement of availability is driven by time loss whereas the measurement of reliability is driven by the frequency and impact of failures. This indicator focuses on availability as it's what clients of the service are concerned with. The ***service's*** maximum allowable downtime, as agreed by the BCP Business Impact Analysis exercise, will be used to assess IITB's service availability. The Core systems will be the ones flagged as *high business value* within [ESDC's Application Portfolio Management (APM) program](http://dialogue/grp/PR6303013/APM_Program/default.aspx).

`service availability = (total elapsed time - sum of downtime) / total elapsed time`

*Note:* Services are never expected to be up 100% of the time. [See here](http://www.gcpedia.gc.ca/wiki/OCIO_Application_Portfolio_Management/Application_Portfolio_Management_User_Guide#Application_Mission_Criticality_and_Critical_Services) for more details.  

## 6. **Increase rate of project intake by IITB**

IITB's project intake capacity will be measured by how much it improves, fostering a continuous improvement measurement over a hard target. The measurement will be on the rate at which intake capacity increases. The PMO's [Active Project List](http://dialogue/grp/ippst/Approved%20Projects%20Lists%20%28APL%29/Forms/AllItems.aspx?RootFolder=%2Fgrp%2Fippst%2FApproved%20Projects%20Lists%20%28APL%29%2FFY%202019%2D2020&FolderCTID=0x012000D8E2E348AB0A034886495AE4BED12E07&View=%7b2C779E42-EB28-444B-AACD-39CC61DDBCE2%7d), for Major/Minor/Small ESDC projects, as well as the PMO's [IITB Lite projects](http://dialogue/grp/ITPM-GPTI/Lists/IITBPMP%20Small%20Projects/AllItems.aspx) will be used as reference points to monitor intake increase.

`rate of intake = (Projects Year_n - Projects Year_n-1) / Projects Year_n-1`

## 7. **Reduction in Cyber-incidents**

This indicator will monitor the number of cyber-incidents across ESDC and measure the rate at which they decrease.

`rate = (Incidents Year_n - Incidents Year_n-1) / Incidents Year_n-1`

## 8. **Client Satisfaction of IITB Services**

This indicator will use a yearly client survey to capture client satisfaction. Clients are lines of businesses across ESDC. This indicator will be qualitative in nature as client opinions are subjective, and will be used to assessed the perceptions of IITB across ESDC. Note that this survey is different than IITB's APM Program. While the APM program assesses specific applications performance, this Client Satisfaction survey is to assess IITB's overall perception.

This indicator will use the following measurement to qualify client satisfaction:

1. Overall satisfaction of IITB's services
2. Quality of IITB's products (systems)
3. Responsiveness of IITB's services

Commit message:

removed indicator "Percentage of IITB services made available as SaaS" increase rate of project intake -> increase rate of delivery to differentiate between projects and products added new indicator "Increase cyber resilience"

Strategies/IITB_KPIs.md, after:

# IITB Key Performance Indicators (PKIs)

IT Strategies are meant to move IITB (and ESDC) towards the end state [Vision of the Canadian Experience](../TeamMandate/Mandate.md). The following KPIs will be used to measure those IT Strategies successes. Monitoring those KPIs will be used to adjust strategies as needed to ensure efforts are well invested and remain aligned with [IITB's high level priorities](http://esdc.prv/en/iitb/corporate/Who_We_Are/Plans_and_Priorities/index.shtml) that are to:

- Focus on the Core Business (of ESDC)
- Modernize IM/IT Service Delivery
- Be efficient in managing its operations
- Be connected with IM/IT partners and suppliers

## 1. **Percentage of ESDC Services consumable by APIs**

ESDC services provided to the public or to other departments will need to be delivered digitally. This means via APIs. This transformation to digital will be measured by the rate at which analogue services are changed to digital ones.

The indicator will be measured by using [ESDC's Service Catalogue](https://www.canada.ca/en/employment-social-development/corporate/portfolio/service-canada/programs.html) as reference point and monitor the rate at which they are transformed to digital

`percentage = digital services / total services`

## 2. **Rate of decrease in processing time of ESDC Services**

The processing time of ESDC services that are provided to the public or to other departments will be an indication of improvement. The measurement will be the reduction in time, not the time itself, focusing on continuous improvement rather than a hard target.

The indicator will be measured by using [ESDC's Service Catalogue](https://www.canada.ca/en/employment-social-development/corporate/portfolio/service-canada/programs.html) and monitor their total processing time from beginning to end. This amount, over time, will be monitored to indicate reduction in processing time.

`rate of service = (New Processing Time - Old Processing Time) / Old Processing Time`

## 3. **Reduction in toil of IITB and ESDC Services**

Toil is the kind of work tied to running a production service that tends to be manual, repetitive, automatable, tactical devoid of enduring value, and that scales linearly as a service grows. Processing time of ESDC services may decrease by increasing manual labour but that would defeat the purpose of digital and jeopordize the service's sustainability.

The indicator will be measured two ways:

1. For toil in IITB Services, using ??? and measure the ratio of X over Y.

`ratio = X / Y`

2. For toil in ESDC Services, using the [ESDC's Service Catalogue](https://www.canada.ca/en/employment-social-development/corporate/portfolio/service-canada/programs.html) and measure the ratio of service requests to amount of personnel.

`ratio = service requests / service personnel`

## 4. **Availability uptime of ESDC core systems**

Moving IITB into a service-oriented organization will require IITB to manage the complexity and growth of its services pro-actively. The measurement of availability is driven by time loss whereas the measurement of reliability is driven by the frequency and impact of failures. This indicator focuses on availability as it's what clients of the service are concerned with. The ***service's*** maximum allowable downtime, as agreed by the BCP Business Impact Analysis exercise, will be used to assess IITB's service availability. The Core systems will be the ones flagged as *high business value* within [ESDC's Application Portfolio Management (APM) program](http://dialogue/grp/PR6303013/APM_Program/default.aspx).

`service availability = (total elapsed time - sum of downtime) / total elapsed time`

*Note:* Services are never expected to be up 100% of the time. [See here](http://www.gcpedia.gc.ca/wiki/OCIO_Application_Portfolio_Management/Application_Portfolio_Management_User_Guide#Application_Mission_Criticality_and_Critical_Services) for more details.  

## 5. **Increase rate of delivery by IITB**

Rate of delivery is the measurement of IITB's ability to deliver projects and software releases. As IITB transitions from project management to product management, it will seek to deliver project faster and then shift to deliver product releaseses faster.

IITB's rate of delivery will be measured by how much it improves, fostering a continuous improvement measurement over a hard target. The measurement will be two folds:

1.  the rate at which intake capacity increases. The PMO's [Active Project List](http://dialogue/grp/ippst/Approved%20Projects%20Lists%20%28APL%29/Forms/AllItems.aspx?RootFolder=%2Fgrp%2Fippst%2FApproved%20Projects%20Lists%20%28APL%29%2FFY%202019%2D2020&FolderCTID=0x012000D8E2E348AB0A034886495AE4BED12E07&View=%7b2C779E42-EB28-444B-AACD-39CC61DDBCE2%7d), for Major/Minor/Small ESDC projects, as well as the PMO's [IITB Lite projects](http://dialogue/grp/ITPM-GPTI/Lists/IITBPMP%20Small%20Projects/AllItems.aspx) will be used as reference points to monitor intake increase. the project's complexity will be considered in the measurement.

`rate of project delivery = (Projects Year_n - Projects Year_n-1) / Projects Year_n-1`

2. the rate at which product releases increases. Thel list of products and their release schedule is found **&lt;insert location here&gt;**

`rate of product delivery = (Product releases Year_n - Product releases Year_n-1) / Product releases Year_n-1`

## 6. **Reduction in Cyber-incidents**

This indicator will monitor the number of cyber-incidents across ESDC and measure the rate at which they decrease.

`rate = (Incidents Year_n - Incidents Year_n-1) / Incidents Year_n-1`

## 7. **Increase cyber resilience**

Cyber resilience looks at preventive measure to counteract human error and insecure software. Being cyber resilient is the capability to detect and counter a sequence of events before the threat can impact the organization. Cyber resilience will be measured by a decrease rate of intrusion, based on the [Mitre Att&amp;ck Matrix](https://attack.mitre.org/) as followed:

`rate = ???`

## 8. **Client Satisfaction of IITB Services**

This indicator will use a yearly client survey to capture client satisfaction. Clients are lines of businesses across ESDC. This indicator will be qualitative in nature as client opinions are subjective, and will be used to assessed the perceptions of IITB across ESDC. Note that this survey is different than IITB's APM Program. While the APM program assesses specific applications performance, this Client Satisfaction survey is to assess IITB's overall perception.

This indicator will use the following measurement to qualify client satisfaction:

1. Overall satisfaction of IITB's services
2. Quality of IITB's products (systems)
3. Responsiveness of IITB's services
