_pages/en/it-picture-long-term.md, before:

# IT Vision Picture - Long Term

This is a working document to help create a picture of what will IITB (Innovation Information and Technology Branch) look in the long term for ESDC (Employment and Social Development Canada).

In the following sections, we're trying to take the same end state and create "views" where different audiences would be looking at ESDC and see different things.

- [Citizens](#Citizens)
  - [Automatic Enrollment and Delivery](#Automatic-Enrollment-and-Delivery)
  - [Self-Service](#Self-Service)
  - [Service Centers and Outreach](#Service-Centers-and-Outreach)
- [Private Sector](#Private-Sector)
- [IITB-ESDC](#IITB-ESDC)
  - [Modern Open Organization](#Modern-Open-Organization)
  - [Strong Culture of Learning](#Strong-culture-of-learning)

## Citizens

### Automatic Enrollment and Delivery

Enrollment and delivery of services is automated by default and wherever possible.
GC Services are integrated with widely used third party platforms and services (Banks, CRA, Social media, Job boards, Internet of things, ..).
90% of citizens (33 300 000 people) have a trusted Canadian profile used to verify/validate identity.
These citizens receive their benefits seamlessly throughout their lives as major life events trigger the delivery of benefits.

### Self-Service

The GC (OneGC) Portal provides access to services and benefits (not just ESDC) in tell us once fashion.
Registering to the Portal will create or use the trusted Canadian profile and enable automatic enrollment and delivery in the future.
Help for using the Portal is available directly on the Portal using instant messaging (text, voice or video) as well as by phone.
This assistance will be delivered by AI or services center staff.

TODO: Add an architecture view mapping our GC partners (e.g. TBS DXP to integrate with OneGC Portal, SSC for public cloud).

### Service Centers and Outreach

For the 10% not enrolled automatically and unable to use the GC Portal (3 700 000 people), small service centres are available, especially in remote regions.
Their role is to help citizens register and use digital services.
They can also use the digital services on behalf of clients.

GC departments have common kiosks to offer services, such as passports, taxes, grants as well as benefits from ESDC.
Outreach programs are deployed to raise awareness in low uptake areas.

## Private Sector

Any platform or device can be integrated with GC and ESDC services and development is often done in partnership with the private sector.
This is possible because ESDC services are available as APIs that can be used by third party platforms and services (Banks, CRA, Social media, Job boards, Internet of things, ..).

Ecosystem of services are created by leveraging private sector expertise where opportunities exist (win-win public-private partnerships), e.g.:
- Banks detecting missed paycheck, job websites targeting people who are job hunting...
- Enhanced security through integration in private sector service (e.g., banks detecting fraudulent transactions)

## IITB-ESDC

### Modern Open Organization

IITB is a modern open organization with a very open culture.
Wherever possible code and projects are developed in the open and use of open source software is the norm.
IITB is the digital, IM and IT advisor and enabler for ESDC and part of major business decisions.

- 90% of employees are able to work from anywhere (TODO: validate measure with trends)
- All internal and external services are available through APIs
- 98% of services are running on public cloud infrastructure (TODO: find cloud adoption rates)

### Strong Culture of Learning

IITB has a very open culture that values learning (TODO: find a tangible example)

TODO: Add recruitment best practices, including for domains other than IT.

Commit message:

Incorporate Rémy's notes/ideas from ITPicture branch

_pages/en/it-picture-long-term.md, after:

# IT Vision Picture - Long Term

This is a working document to help create a picture of what will IITB (Innovation Information and Technology Branch) look in the long term for ESDC (Employment and Social Development Canada).

In the following sections, we're trying to take the same end state and create "views" where different audiences would be looking at ESDC and see different things.

- [Citizens](#Citizens)
  - [Automatic Enrollment and Delivery](#Automatic-Enrollment-and-Delivery)
  - [Self-Service](#Self-Service)
  - [Service Centers and Outreach](#Service-Centers-and-Outreach)
- [Private Sector](#Private-Sector)
- [IITB-ESDC](#IITB-ESDC)
  - [Modern Open Organization](#Modern-Open-Organization)
  - [Strong Culture of Learning](#Strong-culture-of-learning)

## Citizens

- Cyber security and privacy - citizens have a choice to share their personal data for convenience
- Generational change: Citizens are used to deal with technologies, they do not face technical illiteracy like 2019.

### Automatic Enrollment and Delivery

Enrollment and delivery of services is automated by default and wherever possible.
Canadians are benefiting seamlessly from the federal government services through modern technologies.
GC Services are integrated with widely used third party platforms and services (Banks, CRA, Social media, Job boards, Internet of things, ..).
Services are accessible anywhere, anytime, from any device, and from any trusted partner.
90% of citizens (33 300 000 people) have a trusted Canadian profile used to verify/validate identity.
These citizens receive their benefits seamlessly throughout their lives as major life events trigger the delivery of benefits.

### Self-Service

The GC (OneGC) Portal provides access to services and benefits (not just ESDC) in tell us once fashion.
Registering to the Portal will create or use the trusted Canadian profile and enable automatic enrollment and delivery in the future.
Help for using the Portal is available directly on the Portal using instant messaging (text, voice or video) as well as by phone.
This assistance will be delivered by AI or services center staff.

TODO: Add an architecture view mapping our GC partners (e.g. TBS DXP to integrate with OneGC Portal, SSC for public cloud).

### Service Centers and Outreach

For the 10% not enrolled automatically and unable to use the GC Portal (3 700 000 people), small service centres are available, especially in remote regions.
Their role is to help citizens register and use digital services.
They can also use the digital services on behalf of clients.

GC departments have common kiosks to offer services, such as passports, taxes, grants as well as benefits from ESDC.
Outreach programs are deployed to raise awareness in low uptake areas.

## Private Sector

### Any platform, any device, 3rd party integration

Any platform or device can be integrated with GC and ESDC services and development is often done in partnership with the private sector.
This is possible because ESDC services are available as APIs that can be used by third party platforms and services (Banks, CRA, Social media, Job boards, Internet of things, ..).
Employers, Banks, and Credit Unions are the new front lines of ESDC as they are now provided with technological means to interact with ESDC services.

Ecosystem of services are created by leveraging private sector expertise where opportunities exist (win-win public-private partnerships), e.g.:
- Banks detecting missed paycheck, job websites targeting people who are job hunting...
- Enhanced security through integration in private sector service (e.g., banks detecting fraudulent transactions)

### Open Collaboration

- All of ESDC's custom built software are published as open source, allowing Academia and learning institutions to use them, helping grow technological skill sets in the country, fostering economic growth, improving transparency and trust in government, and increasing the breadth of talent for ESDC to use by welcoming contributions back
- ESDC data (performance and automated decision making statistics) published as open datasets

## IITB-ESDC

### Modern Open Organization

IITB is a modern open organization with a very open culture.
Wherever possible code and projects are developed in the open and use of open source software is the norm.
IITB is the digital, IM and IT advisor and enabler for ESDC and part of major business decisions.

- 90% of employees are able to work from anywhere (TODO: validate measure with trends)
- All internal and external services are available through APIs
- 98% of services are running on public cloud infrastructure (TODO: find cloud adoption rates)
- All workloads that are classified Protected B and below are hosted on the public cloud.
  - Classified workloads (secret information) on SSC data centres
- IITB serves as a stewart of IT in ESDC and has embedded IT expertise in program areas (since it has moved to DevOps and Product Management).
  - As a stewart, IITB provides ESDC Programs and their employees with the following services:
    - Corporate services (hardware and software support)
    - Cyber security
    - Technology architecture
    - Development teams
- Automation of internal services
- Leveraging IT services (from IITB) in a self-serving method

### Strong Culture of Learning

IITB has a very open culture that values learning (TODO: find a tangible example)

TODO: Add recruitment best practices, including for domains other than IT.
