_pages/en/mandate.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Mandate
ref: mandate
lang: en
status: posted
categories: "About us"
permalink: /mandate.html
---

## {{ page.title }}

## Vision (image of the future)

The [Canadian Experience](https://github.com/sara-sabr/ITStrategy/blob/master/wip-tec/en/human-development-life-cycle.md) is when Canadians are benefiting seamlessly of the federal government services through modern technologies.

## Mission (team's reason for existence)

Enable the strategic value of IT within ESDC to increase business agility.

## Mandate (team's authority within IITB)

- Diagnose key organizational problems, waste, lead times and governance structures that inhibit the desired changes in behaviours
- Recommend specific course of actions to ESDC governance bodies to adopt new methods of managing IT risks
- Measure progress of adoption of strategies in IITB teams and governance bodies as a performance indicator of the IT Strategy team
- Challenge current thinking and approaches

## Team's Guiding Principles

### Work collaboratively

Collaborate with anyone and everyone who can _add value_.
This includes, but is not limited to, all Canadians, levels of government, departments, private sector organizations, and governments.

### Continuous learning

Learning is a core part of daily activities to ensure up to date, modern, and well-researched direction.

### Lead by Example

By using the approaches and technologies we champion, we are able to better respond and anticipate potential challenges.
We also experiment with modern ways of working in order to demonstrate their value and effectiveness.

## Team understanding of the "digital transformation"

IT is now used to deliver services to Canadians. If IT fails, business fails and vice versa.
The use of technology is no longer "an IT problem" as it has real repercussions to citizens.
IT can no longer be seen as a company within another company (or an outside supplier), it has shared accountability with the organization's mandate.

Current IT processes and methods are risky and costly, which translates into lengthy governance and compliance checks.
We must change how we do IT in order to reduce its risks, improve cyber security, and increase our ability to be flexible, so that IT can become a strategic asset for ESDC, and for citizen experience.
Service lines must therefore also accept the risks and costs of doing IT, because IT is how ESDC successfully delivers its mandate.

That is **Digital Transformation**.

It's an ongoing venture due to the rapid pace of change in the IT world.
It has no end date.
It never ends.

Commit message:

Reword, remove reasons, continuouly improve

_pages/en/mandate.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Mandate
ref: mandate
lang: en
status: posted
categories: "About us"
permalink: /mandate.html
---

## {{ page.title }}

## Vision (image of the future)

The [Canadian Experience](https://github.com/sara-sabr/ITStrategy/blob/master/wip-tec/en/human-development-life-cycle.md) is when Canadians are benefiting seamlessly of the federal government services through modern technologies.

## Mission (team's reason for existence)

Enable the strategic value of IT within ESDC to increase business agility.

## Mandate (team's authority within IITB)

- Diagnose key organizational problems, waste, lead times and governance structures that inhibit the desired changes in behaviours
- Recommend specific course of actions to governance bodies to adopt new methods of managing IT risks
- Measure progress of adoption of strategies in IT teams and governance bodies as a performance indicator of the IT Strategy team
- Challenge current thinking and approaches

## Team's Guiding Principles

### Work collaboratively

Collaborate with anyone and everyone who can _add value_.
This includes, but is not limited to, all Canadians, levels of government, departments, private sector organizations, and governments.

### Continuous learning

Learning is a core part of daily activities to ensure up to date, modern, and well-researched direction.

### Lead by Example

By using the approaches and technologies we champion, we are able to better respond and anticipate potential challenges.
We also experiment with modern ways of working in order to demonstrate their value and effectiveness.

## Team understanding of the "digital transformation"

IT is now used to deliver services to Canadians.
If IT fails, business fails and vice versa.
The use of technology is no longer "an IT problem" as it has real repercussions to citizens.
IT can no longer be seen as a company within another company (or an outside supplier), it has shared accountability with the organization's mandate and is a strategic asset.

Current IT processes and methods take a long time to deliver or change applications, devices and support.
Recovering from incidents is hard and errors resulting from changes are frequent.
We must reduce these risks and continuouly improve in all areas related to IT.

That is **Digital Transformation**.

It's an ongoing venture due to the rapid pace of change in the IT world.
It has no end date.
It never ends.
