_pages/en/speaking_notes.md, before:

# Speaking Notes for IT Strategy feedback

The following are speaking notes the IT Strategy and BRM teams can use when feedback is sought while working in the open.

## Purpose

To solicit informal feedback from the community while work is in progress.

The community is anyone from ESDC, other federal departments, and the industry.

## Collaborative approach in the open

Such feedback is not meant to be official positions from lines of businesses or buy-in.

Instead, it is an opportunity for fellow colleagues to add their perspective to the IT Strategy team.

Their perspective provides valuable feedback to a team who's [mandate](https://sara-sabr.github.io/ITStrategy/mandate.html) regards setting the IT direction of the organisation, diagnosing key organisational problems, and recommending course of actions to resolve them.

This differs from traditional peer review cycles of:

1. Produce draft
2. Seek comments from first committee
3. Dispose committee comments
4. Seek comments from second committee
5. Continue for **n** committees
6. Publish document

Such traditional approach is timely, hinders valuable feedback from knowledgeable minds that are often hidden in the organisation, and dilutes the integrity of the content.

Instead, the IT Strategy's team approach is to work in the open in order to give anyone, regardless of their position in the organisation, an opportunity to express their professional opinion and ideas.

This does not mean seeking consensus.

Rather, it allows the IT Strategy team to hear from a broad and diverse perspective.

Only then would a formal peer review process to seek executive buy-in is to occur.

## Types of feedbacks the IT Strategy team looking for

- Are there missing topics that need to be addressed?
- Are there topics that are misrepresented or do not reflect the lines of businesses perspectives?
- Are their reference sources that you can recommend the IT Strategy team to look at (e.g. articles, studies, official documents)

## Methods to send feedbacks

The following three methods can be used to send feedbacks to the IT Strategy team

### Via Email

Send your feedbacks via email at the-group-email-we-will-need-to-have@hrsdc-rhdcc.gc.ca

### Via submitting an issue on our GitHub repository

[Open an issue](https://github.com/sara-sabr/ITStrategy/issues) on our GitHub repository.

To do so, you will need to [sign up for a free GitHub account](https://github.com/join).

You are free to open any amount of issues.

### Via submitting a Pull Request

If you are used to using Git, you can [submit a Pull Request](https://help.github.com/en/articles/about-pull-requests) that includes the changes you are proposing.

This is the best way to leverage the full collaboration feature of GitHub where we can discuss the changes online.

Commit message:

- added Jekyll layout tags to speaking_notes.md - minor editing of home.md and speaking_notes.md to reference   speaking_notes.md

_pages/en/speaking_notes.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Speaking Notes for IT Strategy feedback
ref: feedback-speaking-notes
lang: en
status: posted
permalink: /feedback-speaking-notes.html
---

## Speaking Notes for IT Strategy feedback

The following are speaking notes the IT Strategy and BRM teams can use when feedback is sought while working in the open.

### Purpose

To solicit informal feedback from the community while work is in progress.

The community is anyone from ESDC, other federal departments, and the industry.

### Collaborative approach in the open

Informal feedback is not meant to be official positions from lines of businesses or buy-in.
Instead, it is an opportunity for fellow colleagues to add their perspective to the IT Strategy team's work.

Their perspective provides valuable feedback to a team who's [mandate](https://sara-sabr.github.io/ITStrategy/mandate.html) regards setting the IT direction of the organisation, diagnosing key organisational problems, and recommending course of actions to resolve them.

This differs from traditional peer review cycles of:

1. Produce draft
2. Seek comments from first committee
3. Dispose committee comments
    - Repeat from \#2 for *n* committees
4. Publish document

Such traditional approach is timely, hinders valuable feedback from knowledgeable minds that are often hidden in the organisation, and dilutes the integrity of the content.
Instead, the IT Strategy's team approach is to work in the open in order to give anyone, regardless of their position in the organisation, an opportunity to express their professional opinion and ideas.

This does not mean seeking consensus.
Rather, it allows the IT Strategy team to hear from a broad and diverse perspective.
Only then would a formal peer review process to seek executive buy-in is to occur.

### Types of feedbacks the IT Strategy team looking for

- Are there missing topics that need to be addressed?
- Are there topics that are misrepresented or do not reflect the lines of businesses perspectives?
- Are their reference sources that you can recommend the IT Strategy team to look at (e.g. articles, studies, official documents)

#### Methods to send feedbacks

The following three methods can be used to send feedbacks to the IT Strategy team

##### Via Email

Send your feedbacks via email at remy.bernard@hrsdc-rhdcc.gc.ca

##### Via submitting an issue on our GitHub repository

[Open an issue](https://github.com/sara-sabr/ITStrategy/issues) on our GitHub repository.

To do so, you will need to [sign up for a free GitHub account](https://github.com/join).
You are free to open any amount of issues.

##### Via submitting a Pull Request

If you are used to using Git, you can [submit a Pull Request](https://help.github.com/en/articles/about-pull-requests) that includes the changes you are proposing.
This is the best way to leverage the full collaboration feature of GitHub where we can discuss the changes online.
