_pages/en/strategies-actions.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: IT Strategies and Actions
ref: strategies
lang: en
status: posted
sections: Ready For Use
permalink: /strategies-actions.html
---

## IT Strategies and Actions

### Goals for all of IITB

- Culture of continuous learning, agile and open
- Reduce lead time for changes
- On demand deployment
- Recover from incidents/errors in less than 1 day
- Less than 15% of changes cause incidents/errors
- Teams interact through automated digital services

### IITB Must (Starting now! For all projects and teams!)

Format:

> - Strategic Action (**bold** = proposed priority)
>   - *Tangible Action*

#### Align with GC IT Direction

- [Digital Standards](https://www.canada.ca/en/government/system/digital-government/government-canada-digital-standards.html)
- [Digital Operations Strategic Plan: 2018-2022](https://www.canada.ca/en/government/system/digital-government/digital-operations-strategic-plan-2018-2022.html)
- [Policy](https://www.tbs-sct.gc.ca/pol/doc-eng.aspx?id=32603) and [Directive on Service and Digital](https://www.tbs-sct.gc.ca/pol/doc-eng.aspx?id=32601)
- [Mandatory Procedures for EA Assessment](https://www.tbs-sct.gc.ca/pol/doc-eng.aspx?id=32602)
- [Mandatory Procedures on APIs](https://www.tbs-sct.gc.ca/pol/doc-eng.aspx?id=32604)
- [Acceptable Network and Device Use](https://www.tbs-sct.gc.ca/pol/doc-eng.aspx?id=32605)

*Consult [Annex A](#Annex-A---Details-of-GC-Information-Technology-Direction) for details.*

#### Cultural

- **IT teams must use at least 10% of their time to learn/try new technologies, attend events/conferences, and stay up to date on trends and technologies related to their work**
  - *Make it a requirement in performance agreements of managers and team leads, or mandatory for all IT teams*
  - *Communications about the updated rules around learning and regular updates on upcoming learning opportunities*
  - *Organize biweekly "Tech Talks" to share knowledge within IITB (maybe this is IITB Showcase)*
  - *Create crowdsourced list of learning resources in GCpedia (link on Intranet)*
  - *Create digital channel for sharing (e.g. Slack)*
  - *Encourage Bi-Daily Team Standups to share learning out loud*
- **IT teams and other groups must have access to modern tooling, such as SaaS (Internet), mobile and desktop tools**
  - *[Unblock access to specific SaaS for IITB employees](web-services-access.html)*
  - *Review the criteria and value add for technology bricks for SaaS*
  - *Invest in bandwidth, DLP and document classification tool to enable more open access to Internet*
  - *Communications that employees can use SaaS on ESDC network for unclassified information only*
  - *Add all approved software to Application Catalogue (e.g. paying ones)*
  - *Automate parts of the software assessment and approval process*
  - *Share software certifications with other departments*
- **IT teams must have access to resources enabling learning and automation of testing, deployments and other manual processes**
  - *Temporary hiring of talent with programming skills (e.g. Co-op students, Casuals, [Talent Cloud](https://talent.canada.ca))*
  - *Reorganize IT teams, starting with staff that are looking for a new challenge*
- **[Hiring favours candidates who demonstrate adaptability, curiosity, and strong ethics](enable-learning.html)**
  - *Work with HR to adapt hiring processes (e.g. interview questions)*
- **Create a safe environment for experimentation/failure and hold blameless postmortems**
  - *Organize lunch between a team/project that recently failed and the DM*
  - *Setup regular communications about failures and lessons learned*
  - *Offer cloud sandboxes for experimentation*
- Build multidisciplinary teams capable of delivering services from start to end of life
- Encourages collaboration and fosters a culture of flexibility, mobility and well-being

#### Process

- **IT teams must use 10% of their time for improving existing processes and automation of testing, deployments and other manual processes**
  - *Make it a requirement in performance agreements of managers and team leads, or mandatory for all IT teams*
  - *Communications about the updated rules around continuous improvements and automation*
  - *Add automation tools to Application Catalogue*
  - *Create centralized repository of scripts on GCcode*
  - *Assess RPA tools (Robotic Process Automation)*
  - *Add automation focus to [Grassroots Innovation Practice](http://dialogue/grp/IP/SitePages/Grassroots%20Innovation%20Practice.aspx) initiative*
  - *Organize hackathons to automate existing processes*
  - *Consult front line workers to determine quick wins*
- **IT teams must work using Agile methodologies, iterate and continually improve solutions, services and processes**
  - *Organize training on Agile for managers and team leads*
  - *Highlight the work of existing Agile teams*
  - *Train Champions of Agile for coaching*
- **Break down work into small tasks and make ongoing work and backlog visible**
  - *Promote the use of GitHub as working environment (tasks/planning, documents)*
- Promote smaller investments over large ones, and monitor them based on business outcomes, not project plans
- Move and support product management
- Where possible, remove the need for manual/committee approval
- Empower multidisciplinary teams and allow them to work on new ideas in pursuit of business goals that solve important problems
- Clients must be included from the start of projects and can submit regular feedback
- Services must be made accessible as APIs

#### Technical

- **IT teams must save all projects artifacts to a version control system**
  - *Help SSC GCcode become officially supported*
  - *Make GCcode the default option for new application development projects*
  - *Promote the use of GitHub or Gitlab as working environment (tasks/planning, documents, continuous integration)*
- **EA must actively and fairly consider open standards (data formats/protocols) and open source software for all new purchases, upgrades or migrations (including cloud solutions)**
  - *Implement the recently approved ESDC OSS Framework*
  - *Collaborate with other departments and agencies on best practices*
- **EA must enable deploy-anytime capabilities, with high degrees of automation**
  - *Assess the implementation of a central PaaS*
- **IT teams must automate tests (Unit, UAT, Security, ITSM ...)**
  - *Train Champions of automation testing*
- **IT teams must automate builds and deployments for all environments (Dev, QA and Production)**
  - *Offer cloud sandboxes to experiment with automation of builds and deployments*
- IT teams must have access to realistic test data
- EA must be loosely coupled and enable IT teams to autonomously, experiment with ideas, and choose their own tools
- EA and Security must provide developers with preapproved libraries
- Security must be involved from the start and in all phase of projects
- Security must develop automated tests

#### Measurement

- IT teams must collect data throughout the value stream
- IT teams must establish Work In Progress (WIP) limits based on team capacity and cognitive load
- IT teams must make collected data and project status visible to the business

### Annex A - Details of GC Information Technology Direction

- [Digital Standards](https://www.canada.ca/en/government/system/digital-government/government-canada-digital-standards.html)
  - Design with users
  - Iterate and improve frequently
  - Work in the open by default
  - Use open standards and solutions
  - Address security and privacy risks
  - Build in accessibility from the start
  - Empower staff to deliver better services
  - Be good data stewards
  - Design ethical services
  - Collaborate widely
- [Digital Operations Strategic Plan: 2018-2022](https://www.canada.ca/en/government/system/digital-government/digital-operations-strategic-plan-2018-2022.html)
  - OneGC vision, aims to not only deliver on the outcome of a single window, but also go beyond it to meet Canadians’ expectations of service delivery on any platform, using any device and with any partner.
- [Policy](https://www.tbs-sct.gc.ca/pol/doc-eng.aspx?id=32603) and [Directive on Service and Digital](https://www.tbs-sct.gc.ca/pol/doc-eng.aspx?id=32601)
  - How GC organizations must manage service delivery, information and data, information technology, and cyber security in the digital era
- [Mandatory Procedures for Enterprise Architecture Assessment](https://www.tbs-sct.gc.ca/pol/doc-eng.aspx?id=32602)
  - Align to the GC Business Capability model
  - Design for users first and deliver with multidisciplinary teams
  - Design systems to be measurable and accountable
  - Use Open Standards and Open Source Software
  - Maximize Reuse; Enable Interoperability
  - Use Cloud and SaaS
  - Design for performance, availability, scalability, security and privacy
- [Mandatory Procedures on Application Programming Interfaces](https://www.tbs-sct.gc.ca/pol/doc-eng.aspx?id=32604)
  - Validate API design by consuming it with a production application within your organization
  - All APIs should be published to the API Store
- [Acceptable Network and Device Use](https://www.tbs-sct.gc.ca/pol/doc-eng.aspx?id=32605)
  - Provide open access to Internet tools and services to support public servants in their work duties, enhance collaboration and networking with their peers

Commit message:

Add in creation of Devops dojo

_pages/en/strategies-actions.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: IT Strategies and Actions
ref: strategies
lang: en
status: posted
sections: Ready For Use
permalink: /strategies-actions.html
---

## IT Strategies and Actions

### Goals for all of IITB

- Culture of continuous learning, agile and open
- Reduce lead time for changes
- On demand deployment
- Recover from incidents/errors in less than 1 day
- Less than 15% of changes cause incidents/errors
- Teams interact through automated digital services

### IITB Must (Starting now! For all projects and teams!)

Format:

> - Strategic Action (**bold** = proposed priority)
>   - *Tangible Action*

#### Align with GC IT Direction

- [Digital Standards](https://www.canada.ca/en/government/system/digital-government/government-canada-digital-standards.html)
- [Digital Operations Strategic Plan: 2018-2022](https://www.canada.ca/en/government/system/digital-government/digital-operations-strategic-plan-2018-2022.html)
- [Policy](https://www.tbs-sct.gc.ca/pol/doc-eng.aspx?id=32603) and [Directive on Service and Digital](https://www.tbs-sct.gc.ca/pol/doc-eng.aspx?id=32601)
- [Mandatory Procedures for EA Assessment](https://www.tbs-sct.gc.ca/pol/doc-eng.aspx?id=32602)
- [Mandatory Procedures on APIs](https://www.tbs-sct.gc.ca/pol/doc-eng.aspx?id=32604)
- [Acceptable Network and Device Use](https://www.tbs-sct.gc.ca/pol/doc-eng.aspx?id=32605)

*Consult [Annex A](#Annex-A---Details-of-GC-Information-Technology-Direction) for details.*

#### Cultural

- **IT teams must use at least 10% of their time to learn/try new technologies, attend events/conferences, and stay up to date on trends and technologies related to their work**
  - *Make it a requirement in performance agreements of managers and team leads, or mandatory for all IT teams*
  - *Communications about the updated rules around learning and regular updates on upcoming learning opportunities*
  - *Organize biweekly "Tech Talks" to share knowledge within IITB (maybe this is IITB Showcase)*
  - *Create crowdsourced list of learning resources in GCpedia (link on Intranet)*
  - *Create digital channel for sharing (e.g. Slack)*
  - *Encourage Bi-Daily Team Standups to share learning out loud*
- **IT teams and other groups must have access to modern tooling, such as SaaS (Internet), mobile and desktop tools**
  - *[Unblock access to specific SaaS for IITB employees](web-services-access.html)*
  - *Review the criteria and value add for technology bricks for SaaS*
  - *Invest in bandwidth, DLP and document classification tool to enable more open access to Internet*
  - *Communications that employees can use SaaS on ESDC network for unclassified information only*
  - *Add all approved software to Application Catalogue (e.g. paying ones)*
  - *Automate parts of the software assessment and approval process*
  - *Share software certifications with other departments*
- **IT teams must have access to resources enabling learning and automation of testing, deployments and other manual processes**
  - *Temporary hiring of talent with programming skills (e.g. Co-op students, Casuals, [Talent Cloud](https://talent.canada.ca))*
  - *Reorganize IT teams, starting with staff that are looking for a new challenge*
- **[Hiring favours candidates who demonstrate adaptability, curiosity, and strong ethics](enable-learning.html)**
  - *Work with HR to adapt hiring processes (e.g. interview questions)*
- **Create a safe environment for experimentation/failure and hold blameless postmortems**
  - *Organize lunch between a team/project that recently failed and the DM*
  - *Setup regular communications about failures and lessons learned*
  - *Offer cloud sandboxes for experimentation*
- Build multidisciplinary teams capable of delivering services from start to end of life
- Encourages collaboration and fosters a culture of flexibility, mobility and well-being

#### Process

- **IT teams must use 10% of their time for improving existing processes and automation of testing, deployments and other manual processes**
  - *Make it a requirement in performance agreements of managers and team leads, or mandatory for all IT teams*
  - *Communications about the updated rules around continuous improvements and automation*
  - *Add automation tools to Application Catalogue*
  - *Create centralized repository of scripts on GCcode*
  - *Assess RPA tools (Robotic Process Automation)*
  - *Add automation focus to [Grassroots Innovation Practice](http://dialogue/grp/IP/SitePages/Grassroots%20Innovation%20Practice.aspx) initiative*
  - *Organize hackathons to automate existing processes*
  - *Consult front line workers to determine quick wins*
- **IT teams must work using Agile methodologies, iterate and continually improve solutions, services and processes**
  - *Organize training on Agile for managers and team leads*
  - *Highlight the work of existing Agile teams*
  - *Train Champions of Agile for coaching*
- **Break down work into small tasks and make ongoing work and backlog visible**
  - *Promote the use of GitHub as working environment (tasks/planning, documents)*
- Promote smaller investments over large ones, and monitor them based on business outcomes, not project plans
- Move and support product management
- Where possible, remove the need for manual/committee approval
- Empower multidisciplinary teams and allow them to work on new ideas in pursuit of business goals that solve important problems
- Clients must be included from the start of projects and can submit regular feedback
- Services must be made accessible as APIs
- **Create a DevOps Dojo**
  - Promote continuous departmental improvement by creating a venue where teams can learn from experts in modern IT delivery best practices and principles
  - Invest in teams staying up to date and continually improving their tools and the way they work

#### Technical

- **IT teams must save all projects artifacts to a version control system**
  - *Help SSC GCcode become officially supported*
  - *Make GCcode the default option for new application development projects*
  - *Promote the use of GitHub or Gitlab as working environment (tasks/planning, documents, continuous integration)*
- **EA must actively and fairly consider open standards (data formats/protocols) and open source software for all new purchases, upgrades or migrations (including cloud solutions)**
  - *Implement the recently approved ESDC OSS Framework*
  - *Collaborate with other departments and agencies on best practices*
- **EA must enable deploy-anytime capabilities, with high degrees of automation**
  - *Assess the implementation of a central PaaS*
- **IT teams must automate tests (Unit, UAT, Security, ITSM ...)**
  - *Train Champions of automation testing*
- **IT teams must automate builds and deployments for all environments (Dev, QA and Production)**
  - *Offer cloud sandboxes to experiment with automation of builds and deployments*
- IT teams must have access to realistic test data
- EA must be loosely coupled and enable IT teams to autonomously, experiment with ideas, and choose their own tools
- EA and Security must provide developers with preapproved libraries
- Security must be involved from the start and in all phase of projects
- Security must develop automated tests

#### Measurement

- IT teams must collect data throughout the value stream
- IT teams must establish Work In Progress (WIP) limits based on team capacity and cognitive load
- IT teams must make collected data and project status visible to the business

### Annex A - Details of GC Information Technology Direction

- [Digital Standards](https://www.canada.ca/en/government/system/digital-government/government-canada-digital-standards.html)
  - Design with users
  - Iterate and improve frequently
  - Work in the open by default
  - Use open standards and solutions
  - Address security and privacy risks
  - Build in accessibility from the start
  - Empower staff to deliver better services
  - Be good data stewards
  - Design ethical services
  - Collaborate widely
- [Digital Operations Strategic Plan: 2018-2022](https://www.canada.ca/en/government/system/digital-government/digital-operations-strategic-plan-2018-2022.html)
  - OneGC vision, aims to not only deliver on the outcome of a single window, but also go beyond it to meet Canadians’ expectations of service delivery on any platform, using any device and with any partner.
- [Policy](https://www.tbs-sct.gc.ca/pol/doc-eng.aspx?id=32603) and [Directive on Service and Digital](https://www.tbs-sct.gc.ca/pol/doc-eng.aspx?id=32601)
  - How GC organizations must manage service delivery, information and data, information technology, and cyber security in the digital era
- [Mandatory Procedures for Enterprise Architecture Assessment](https://www.tbs-sct.gc.ca/pol/doc-eng.aspx?id=32602)
  - Align to the GC Business Capability model
  - Design for users first and deliver with multidisciplinary teams
  - Design systems to be measurable and accountable
  - Use Open Standards and Open Source Software
  - Maximize Reuse; Enable Interoperability
  - Use Cloud and SaaS
  - Design for performance, availability, scalability, security and privacy
- [Mandatory Procedures on Application Programming Interfaces](https://www.tbs-sct.gc.ca/pol/doc-eng.aspx?id=32604)
  - Validate API design by consuming it with a production application within your organization
  - All APIs should be published to the API Store
- [Acceptable Network and Device Use](https://www.tbs-sct.gc.ca/pol/doc-eng.aspx?id=32605)
  - Provide open access to Internet tools and services to support public servants in their work duties, enhance collaboration and networking with their peers
