_pages/en/strategy-product-mgt-definitions.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: "Product - Inventory of Definitions"
ref: product-inventory-definitions
lang: en
sections: Supporting Documents
datatable-ids: t001
version: 0.01
date: "2021-07-22"
permalink: /strategy-product-mgt-definitions.html
---
<!-- markdownlint-disable MD033 -->
<!-- the below cSpell statement says to ignore any text between HTML tags. E.g. it will ignore "th rowspan='2'" in this string: <th rowspan='2'> -->
<!-- cSpell:ignoreRegExp /\<[^\>]+\>/ -->

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD001 -->
##### Table of Content <!-- omit in toc -->
<!-- markdownlint-enable MD001 -->

- [ESDC Definition of Product](#esdc-definition-of-product)
- [Inventory of known definitions](#inventory-of-known-definitions)

This document seeks to clarify what will be the definition of “Product” for ESDC.

A clear definition, accepted by both “IT” and “The Business”, is necessary to set the right expectations, reduce confusion, and ensure alignment of efforts.

## ESDC Definition of Product

3 reasons why there needs to be an IT “hook” in the definition:

1. The [Policy on service and digital](https://www.tbs-sct.gc.ca/pol/doc-eng.aspx?id=32603) requires departmental integrated plans to [identify the apps in the APM portfolio that are being invested in](https://gcconnex.gc.ca/discussion/view/72865810/dpsd-guide-1-0-for-integrated-planning-guide-pmsn-1-0-pour-le-plan-integre?language=en). APM is already an established methodology with TBS.
2. Software has a unique characteristic: it’s elastic (this is what Cloud gives us). The marginal costs of changing software is low and warrants adjusting our planning methods.
3. If the definition is too BROAD, it is meaningless. To mean something for IT, it needs to have a technology meaning.

The IT Strategy’s Product Management Strategy proposal considers the above three points. If those change, its proposal may not be relevant.

May consider using a different term like “Digital Product”...

| \# | Definition |
| --------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1 | A solution that is developed to improve a business capability (internal product) or improve a user experience (external product).<br><br>A product enables one or more services.|
| 2 |  |
| 3 |  |

## Inventory of known definitions

The below is an inventory of definitions from the industry and from Government sources.

Number of requirements by policy instrument.

{% include table.html table-id="t001" file="product-inventory-definitions"%}

Commit message:

added an organization-level def

_pages/en/strategy-product-mgt-definitions.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: "Product - Inventory of Definitions"
ref: product-inventory-definitions
lang: en
sections: Supporting Documents
datatable-ids: t001
version: 0.01
date: "2021-07-22"
permalink: /strategy-product-mgt-definitions.html
---
<!-- markdownlint-disable MD033 -->
<!-- the below cSpell statement says to ignore any text between HTML tags. E.g. it will ignore "th rowspan='2'" in this string: <th rowspan='2'> -->
<!-- cSpell:ignoreRegExp /\<[^\>]+\>/ -->

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD001 -->
##### Table of Content <!-- omit in toc -->
<!-- markdownlint-enable MD001 -->

- [ESDC Definition of Product](#esdc-definition-of-product)
- [Inventory of known definitions](#inventory-of-known-definitions)

This document seeks to clarify what will be the definition of “Product” for ESDC.

A clear definition, accepted by both “IT” and “The Business”, is necessary to set the right expectations, reduce confusion, and ensure alignment of efforts.

## ESDC Definition of Product

3 reasons why there needs to be an IT “hook” in the definition:

1. The [Policy on service and digital](https://www.tbs-sct.gc.ca/pol/doc-eng.aspx?id=32603) requires departmental integrated plans to [identify the apps in the APM portfolio that are being invested in](https://gcconnex.gc.ca/discussion/view/72865810/dpsd-guide-1-0-for-integrated-planning-guide-pmsn-1-0-pour-le-plan-integre?language=en). APM is already an established methodology with TBS.
2. Software has a unique characteristic: it’s elastic (this is what Cloud gives us). The marginal costs of changing software is low and warrants adjusting our planning methods.
3. If the definition is too BROAD, it is meaningless. To mean something for IT, it needs to have a technology meaning.

The IT Strategy’s Product Management Strategy proposal considers the above three points. If those change, its proposal may not be relevant.

May consider using a different term like “Digital Product”...

| \# | Definition |
| --------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1 | (departmental level, mapped to the [PAA](https://www.canada.ca/en/employment-social-development/corporate/reports/departmental-plan/2018/supplementary-information.html#h2.2))<br>An offering, tangible or intangible, delivered to a Canadian as part of a departmental Program’s mandate<br><br>E.g. a licence, a benefit, a passport, a digital ID, a Grant, a Job Offering
| 2 | (IT organization level)<br>A software or hardware solution that is developed to improve a business capability (internal product) or improve a user experience (external product).<br><br>A product enables one or more services.<br>(tailored from TBS definition, to make it more meaningful to ESDC)

## Inventory of known definitions

The below is an inventory of definitions from the industry and from Government sources.

Number of requirements by policy instrument.

{% include table.html table-id="t001" file="product-inventory-definitions"%}
