_pages/en/strategy-learning-automating-improving.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Q1 Strategy - Continuous Improvement and Learning
ref: strategy-q1-2020
lang: en
status: posted
sections: Ready For Use
permalink: /strategy-learning-automating-improving.html
---

## Q1 Strategy - Continuous Improvement and Learning

The following actions apply for the 1st quarter of the 2020-2021 fiscal year (April 2020 to June 2020).

Strategies and actions will be reviewed and updated quarterly based on effectiveness and current progress towards the [Medium Term IT Picture - 2025](https://sara-sabr.github.io/ITStrategy/it-picture-medium-term.html) as well as following the [Strategy Map](https://sara-sabr.github.io/ITStrategy/strategy-summary.html) (layering on the strategies).

- [Goals](#goals)
- [Actions](#actions)

### Goals

The goals are based on the GC IT Direction around [Digital government](https://www.canada.ca/en/government/system/digital-government.html) as well as the [DevOps Research and Assessment (DORA) - How to Transform](https://cloud.google.com/solutions/devops/devops-culture-transform) and the book explaining the findings of the State of DevOps Reports ([2019 PDF](https://services.google.com/fh/files/misc/state-of-devops-2019.pdf)), [Accelerate: The Science of Lean Software and DevOps: Building and Scaling High Performing Technology Organizations](https://books.google.ca/books?id=Kax-DwAAQBAJ&lpg=PP1&dq=Accelerate&hl=fr&pg=PP1#v=snippet&q=20%25&f=false).

- Reduce lead time for changes and delivery of services/devices
- Reduce frequency of incidents and errors
- Recover faster from incidents and errors

For more books, reports and articles supporting this strategy, you can consult our [References]({{ site.baseurl }}/references-en.html#q1-strategy---continuous-improvement-and-learning).

#### Align with GC IT Direction

- [Digital Standards](https://www.canada.ca/en/government/system/digital-government/government-canada-digital-standards.html)
- [Digital Operations Strategic Plan: 2018-2022](https://www.canada.ca/en/government/system/digital-government/digital-operations-strategic-plan-2018-2022.html)
- [Policy](https://www.tbs-sct.gc.ca/pol/doc-eng.aspx?id=32603) and [Directive on Service and Digital](https://www.tbs-sct.gc.ca/pol/doc-eng.aspx?id=32601)
  - [Mandatory Procedures for Enterprise Architecture (EA) Assessment](https://www.tbs-sct.gc.ca/pol/doc-eng.aspx?id=32602)
  - [Mandatory Procedures on Application Programming Interfaces (API)](https://www.tbs-sct.gc.ca/pol/doc-eng.aspx?id=32604)
  - [Acceptable Network and Device Use](https://www.tbs-sct.gc.ca/pol/doc-eng.aspx?id=32605)

### Actions

IITB teams should:

#### Use up to 20% of the team's time to improve and learn

**For all the following and other related activities, use CATS codes for continuous improvement (14644).**

##### Improve

- Understand teams performance levels and set realistic goals
- Identify ways to improve daily work performance and prioritize
- Measure current processing times of units of work your team processes
- Reduce amount of time it takes to complete work items
- Review existing processes and governance structure which lengthen process times
- Identify issues and raise them to your manager or as Grassroots initiatives or proofs of concept
- Automate repetitive manual tasks where possible, at the team and individual level

##### Learn

- Stay up to date on trends and technologies inside and outside the GC
- Teach yourself basic programming (e.g. .Net Core, Java, Python, JavaScript)
- Experiment with cloud technologies - [Play with Docker](https://labs.play-with-docker.com/)
- Take online courses - [edX](https://www.edx.org/), [Cousera](https://www.coursera.org/), [Udemy](https://www.udemy.com/), or search on [MOOC List](https://www.mooc-list.com/)
- Read books, articles or documentation - See our [References]({{ site.baseurl }}/references-en.html)
- Attend events or conferences
- Contact teams within the value stream of your team to better understand the processes you interface with
- Request [Micro Missions](http://esdc.prv/en/service-canada/pob/pob_activities/2016/micromissions.shtml) with groups throughout ESDC or the Government of Canada at large on [GCconnex](https://gcconnex.gc.ca/missions/main)
- Attend [IITB showcase](http://dialogue/grp/BU6386699/SitePages/IITB_Showcase.aspx), [Dev CoP](https://github.com/esdc-edsc/Welcome/blob/master/Recommendations/DevOps_SDLC.md), dojos or other learning opportunities within IITB and ESDC
- Participate in "Innovation" at ESDC and [Innovation Lab](http://iservice.prv/eng/innovation_lab/index.shtml) design sessions
- Explore data science opportunities with ESDC Chief Data Office (CDO)
- Setup a recurring time to share knowledge with colleagues within your team (small, 5-10 people)
- Find/become a mentor/coach
- Join groups and participate in discussions on [GCconnex](https://gcconnex.gc.ca/) and [GCcollab](https://gccollab.ca/), as well as external communities
- Take part in Service Canada staff training
- Register for training/events [offered by ESDC](https://esdc.sabacloud.com/) and through [GCcampus](https://idp.csps-efpc.gc.ca/)
- Start/attend meetups regarding technologies relevant to your work
- Learn more methodologies - Many free audiobook samples can be found on [ITRevolution's SoundCloud](https://soundcloud.com/itrevolution/sets)
- Reach out to your [Security Champion network](http://dialogue/grp/IITB-DGIIT-Gov-New-Nouveau/SLF%20Forum%20Documents/Security%20Champions%20SLF-EN.pptx) to learn about security
- Collaborate with [ESDC's Development Community (Dev CoP)](https://esdc-devcop.github.io/) on development recommendations and best practices within the department.

### Outcomes

- Reduction of technical debt
- Increased innovation
- Faster response to needs of citizens
- Faster response to operational issues (e.g.: new vulnerabilities)
- Reduced frequency of incidents and errors
- Increased ability to comply with regulations
- Increased job satisfaction and retention (incl. student)
- Culture resistant to potential disruptions via automation
- Culture that benefits from automation opportunities

Commit message:

Continuous improvement update (#853)
* Adding recommended cloud certs

* Adding reduction of technical debt to improve and added CATS code for grassroots

* I have no idea how to do sub lists ... travis hates me

* Minor changes

* Add Learning CATS code

* Add CATS for Career development

* Add CATS code for IM Clean-up

* Added some codes.  Removed the task category code.

Added the codes for: IT Security training, Accessibility training and awareness, official language training, and the code for 'improving developer productivity'.  
Removed the task code for general training as this results in training be allocated to 'non-work activities'.  Added a note to say that the continuous improvement code can also be used for general training. Need to talk to the CATS and learning teams about this.

* Added more task component codes back in

* trying to get Travis to like me

Co-authored-by: Gabriel Cossette <gabriel.cossette@hrsdc-rhdcc.gc.ca>
Co-authored-by: RachelMuston <rachel_muston@hotmail.com>

_pages/en/strategy-learning-automating-improving.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Q1 Strategy - Continuous Improvement and Learning
ref: strategy-q1-2020
lang: en
status: posted
sections: Ready For Use
permalink: /strategy-learning-automating-improving.html
---

## Q1 Strategy - Continuous Improvement and Learning

The following actions apply for the 1st quarter of the 2020-2021 fiscal year (April 2020 to June 2020).

Strategies and actions will be reviewed and updated quarterly based on effectiveness and current progress towards the [Medium Term IT Picture - 2025](https://sara-sabr.github.io/ITStrategy/it-picture-medium-term.html) as well as following the [Strategy Map](https://sara-sabr.github.io/ITStrategy/strategy-summary.html) (layering on the strategies).

- [Goals](#goals)
- [Actions](#actions)

### Goals

The goals are based on the GC IT Direction around [Digital government](https://www.canada.ca/en/government/system/digital-government.html) as well as the [DevOps Research and Assessment (DORA) - How to Transform](https://cloud.google.com/solutions/devops/devops-culture-transform) and the book explaining the findings of the State of DevOps Reports ([2019 PDF](https://services.google.com/fh/files/misc/state-of-devops-2019.pdf)), [Accelerate: The Science of Lean Software and DevOps: Building and Scaling High Performing Technology Organizations](https://books.google.ca/books?id=Kax-DwAAQBAJ&lpg=PP1&dq=Accelerate&hl=fr&pg=PP1#v=snippet&q=20%25&f=false).

- Reduce lead time for changes and delivery of services/devices
- Reduce frequency of incidents and errors
- Recover faster from incidents and errors

For more books, reports and articles supporting this strategy, you can consult our [References]({{ site.baseurl }}/references-en.html#q1-strategy---continuous-improvement-and-learning).

#### Align with GC IT Direction

- [Digital Standards](https://www.canada.ca/en/government/system/digital-government/government-canada-digital-standards.html)
- [Digital Operations Strategic Plan: 2018-2022](https://www.canada.ca/en/government/system/digital-government/digital-operations-strategic-plan-2018-2022.html)
- [Policy](https://www.tbs-sct.gc.ca/pol/doc-eng.aspx?id=32603) and [Directive on Service and Digital](https://www.tbs-sct.gc.ca/pol/doc-eng.aspx?id=32601)
  - [Mandatory Procedures for Enterprise Architecture (EA) Assessment](https://www.tbs-sct.gc.ca/pol/doc-eng.aspx?id=32602)
  - [Mandatory Procedures on Application Programming Interfaces (API)](https://www.tbs-sct.gc.ca/pol/doc-eng.aspx?id=32604)
  - [Acceptable Network and Device Use](https://www.tbs-sct.gc.ca/pol/doc-eng.aspx?id=32605)

### Actions

IITB teams should:

#### Use up to 20% of the team's time to improve and learn

##### Improve

- Understand teams performance levels and set realistic goals
- Identify ways to improve daily work performance and prioritize
- Measure current processing times of units of work your team processes
- Reduce amount of time it takes to complete work items
- Review existing processes and governance structure which lengthen process times
- Identify issues and raise them to your manager or as [Grassroots initiatives](http://dialogue/grp/IP/SitePages/Grassroots%20Innovation%20Practice.aspx) (CATS code: 13671) or proofs of concept
- Automate repetitive manual tasks where possible, at the team and individual level
- Reduce technical debt

CATS codes:

- Continuous improvement: 14644
- Grassroots innovation: 13671
- IM Clean-up: 10165
- Improving developer productivity: 13863

##### Learn

- Stay up to date on trends and technologies inside and outside the GC
- Teach yourself basic programming (e.g. .Net Core, Java, Python, JavaScript)
- Experiment with cloud technologies - [Play with Docker](https://labs.play-with-docker.com/)
- Take online courses - [edX](https://www.edx.org/), [Cousera](https://www.coursera.org/), [Udemy](https://www.udemy.com/), or search on [MOOC List](https://www.mooc-list.com/)
- Study for certificates from certified Cloud Service Providers (e.g. [AWS](https://aws.amazon.com/certification/), [Azure](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/learning/azure-exams.aspx))
- Read books, articles or documentation - See our [References]({{ site.baseurl }}/references-en.html)
- Attend events or conferences
- Contact teams within the value stream of your team to better understand the processes you interface with
- Request [Micro Missions](http://esdc.prv/en/service-canada/pob/pob_activities/2016/micromissions.shtml) with groups throughout ESDC or the Government of Canada at large on [GCconnex](https://gcconnex.gc.ca/missions/main)
- Attend [IITB showcase](http://dialogue/grp/BU6386699/SitePages/IITB_Showcase.aspx), [Dev CoP](https://github.com/esdc-edsc/Welcome/blob/master/Recommendations/DevOps_SDLC.md), dojos or other learning opportunities within IITB and ESDC
- Participate in "Innovation" at ESDC and [Innovation Lab](http://iservice.prv/eng/innovation_lab/index.shtml) design sessions
- Explore data science opportunities with ESDC Chief Data Office (CDO)
- Setup a recurring time to share knowledge with colleagues within your team (small, 5-10 people)
- Find/become a mentor/coach
- Join groups and participate in discussions on [GCconnex](https://gcconnex.gc.ca/) and [GCcollab](https://gccollab.ca/), as well as external communities
- Take part in Service Canada staff training
- Register for training/events [offered by ESDC](https://esdc.sabacloud.com/) and through [GCcampus](https://idp.csps-efpc.gc.ca/)
- Start/attend meetups regarding technologies relevant to your work
- Learn more methodologies - Many free audiobook samples can be found on [ITRevolution's SoundCloud](https://soundcloud.com/itrevolution/sets)
- Reach out to your [Security Champion network](http://dialogue/grp/IITB-DGIIT-Gov-New-Nouveau/SLF%20Forum%20Documents/Security%20Champions%20SLF-EN.pptx) to learn about security
- Collaborate with [ESDC's Development Community (Dev CoP)](https://esdc-devcop.github.io/) on development recommendations and best practices within the department.

CATS codes:

- Career development: 10600
- IT Security training for IITB: 10608
- Accessibility training and awareness: 13403
- Official language training: 11500
- General training: task component code 330 or task component code 100 plus CATS code for continuous improvement: 14644
- Task specific training: task component code 160

### Outcomes

- Reduction of technical debt
- Increased innovation
- Faster response to needs of citizens
- Faster response to operational issues (e.g.: new vulnerabilities)
- Reduced frequency of incidents and errors
- Increased ability to comply with regulations
- Increased job satisfaction and retention (incl. student)
- Culture resistant to potential disruptions via automation
- Culture that benefits from automation opportunities
