_pages/en/strategy-communications.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Communications Strategy
ref: strategy-communications
lang: en
status: posted
sections: Work In Progress
permalink: /strategy-communications.html
---

## Communications Strategy

- [Purpose](#purpose)
- [Stakeholders](#stakeholders)
- [Communications Methods](#communications-methods)
- [Evaluation](#evaluation)

### Purpose

To elaborate on the re-usable methods the IT Strategy teams will have at their disposal in communicate effectively its strategies.
The goals of the communication strategy are:

- Raise awareness of IT Strategies being produced and approved to ESDC personnel, more specifically IITB ones
- Engage effectively with stakeholders during both the strategy making process and their execution
- Demonstrate the success of IT strategies
- Ensure stakeholders understand the intent of the IT strategies
- Change behaviours and perceptions where necessary

### Stakeholders

- IITB Senior Executives (DG and ADM)
- IITB Executives (Directors and Executive Directors)
- IITB Management (Managers and Team Leads)
- IITB Workforce
- Non-IITB ESDC executives (e.g. "The Business")
- General ESDC or other Government department personnel

#### Key Messages

For each Stakeholders, we need to identify the key messages (objective we want) they will need to hear from our Team.
For example:

- IITB Senior Executives
  - General Direction, Endorsements, and progress updates towards that direction via Identified Metrics
- IITB Management
  - Staffing-related and Management-related strategies (e.g. continuous learning objectives)
- IITB Workforce
  - Daily actions they can start doing today, tools at their disposal, forums at their disposal

Link to the "Communications Methods" at our disposal that can be used.

### Communications Methods

- [Endorsement](#endorsement)
- [Outreach](#outreach)
- [Feedback](#feedback)

#### Endorsement

To be official, strategies, actions and other initiatives, must be endorsed or approved by management (DG, CIO, DM, ..).
The following are way to get things endorsed.

##### CIO Executive Committee

Requires wider consultation and presentation to DG Committee.
Use for quarterly strategies and actions as well as other changes that require wider consultation.

Follow these steps:

1. Director Feedback/updates
1. Other teams feedback/updates
   - Security
   - Operations
   - Development
   - Databases
   - Learning
   - ..
1. DG feedback/updates
1. Present to DG Committee
1. Present to Architecture Review Committee
1. Present to CIO Executive Committee
1. Published on Intranet

##### Briefing Note

Can be sent directly to DG, CIO or DM, using organization reporting structure (hierarchy).
Use for information or to avoid going up through committees for Endorsement.

#### Outreach

Quarterly strategies and actions will start on 2020-04-01.
Every 3 months the strategies and actions will be updated based on feedback and progress.
New strategies and actions will be added based on strategy map (layer on the strategies).
The following are way to get things Outreached.

##### Emails

- Email from CIO about upcoming changes (quarterly strategies, SaaS access)
- Quarterly emails from DG about strategies and actions
- IITB News

##### Presentations

- SLF, MTLC, ..
- IITB Showcase, Dev CoP, GC DevOps League, ..

##### Blogs

- IT Strategy Website
- IITB blog
- Linkedin
- Twitter

#### Feedback

Feedback will inform how we move forward with quarterly strategies and actions as well as other initiatives.

- Short quarterly surveys about strategies and actions
- Gather feedback at presentations

### Evaluation

How will we measure ourselves on whether our communication strategy works or needs to be adjusted?
KPIs should be closely related to objectives but can also be used to support results in our actions. E.g.

- Number of hits on our website
- Number of endorsements received
- Number of forum events the team presented at
- Number of attendance at those forum events
- Number of feedbacks received as part of the Feedback loop Communications method
- Number of twitter retweets from CIO/IITB stakeholders

Commit message:

changed structure and content around stakeholders, key messages, and objectives

_pages/en/strategy-communications.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Team's Communications Strategy
ref: strategy-communications
lang: en
status: posted
sections: Work In Progress
permalink: /strategy-communications.html
---

## Communications Strategy

- [Purpose](#purpose)
- [Objectives](#objectives)
- [Stakeholders and Key Messages](#stakeholders-and-key-messages)
- [Communications Methods](#communications-methods)
- [Evaluation](#evaluation)

### Purpose

To elaborate on the re-usable methods the IT Strategy team will have at its disposal in communicating effectively its strategies to various audiences.

### Objectives

The objectives of the team's communication strategy are to:

- Raise awareness of IT Strategies being produced and approved to ESDC personnel, more specifically IITB ones
- Engage effectively with stakeholders during both the strategy making process and their execution
- Demonstrate the success of IT strategies
- Ensure stakeholders understand the intent of the IT strategies
- Change behaviours and perceptions where necessary

### Stakeholders, and Key Messages

_Stakeholders_ represent the type of audience the team is looking to target, and what _messages_ this audience will be targetted with based on our understanding of what they need to know.

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD033 -->
Content requiring the exception

| **Stakeholder**             | **What they need to know**                    | **Key communications messages**               |
| --------------------------- | --------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------- |
| IITB Senior Executives      | 1. Strategic Decisions<br> 2. Progress towards IITB Way Forward Objectives<br> 3. Major changes to the organization (structure, governance, or investments) | 1. We engage periodically with IITB communities and staff<br> 2. We are trusted in raising senior level attention when it is required<br> 3. We have an approach in executing and measuring our strategies |
| IITB Executives             | 1. Directional changes impacting their operational plans<br> 2. Expectations on teams interactions<br> 3. What values are the strategies to their divisional objective | 1. We engage periodically with IITB communities and staff<br> 2. We are transparent in our work and welcome feedback<br> 3. We are taking an interative way to strategy (no big bang approach) 4. We are focusing on team interactions and enablement to succeed<br> 5. We work as per what we preach |
| IITB Management (Managers and Team Leads) | 1. How much workload is coming<br> 2. What is the HR implications of strategies approved<br> 3. What values are the strategies to their team's responsibilities | 1. We engage periodically with IITB communities and staff<br> 2. We are transparent in our work and welcome feedback<br> 3. We are taking an interative way to strategy (no big bang approach) 4. We are focusing on team interactions and enablement to succeed<br> 5. We work as per what we preach<br> 6. We are looking for tangible methods to break down siloes |
| IITB Workforce              | 1. What's in it for me<br> 2. Will it impact my daily work<br> 3. Will it affect my quality of life | 1. We engage periodically with IITB communities and staff<br> 2. We are transparent in our work and welcome feedback<br>  3. We are focusing on team interactions and enablement to succeed<br> 4. Job satisfaction is one of our focus |
| Non-IITB ESDC Executives (e.g. "The Business") | 1. What does IITB offer them<br>2. How is IITB changing and improving<br>3. How is IITB supporting the Departmental Service Strategy | 1. We are focusing on improving responsiveness to change<br> 2. We want to make IT engagement easier<br> 3. We are taking a non-conventional method to strategy making  |
| General ESDC or other Government department | 1. What is ESDC doing in IT<br> 2. What can they re-use for themselves<br> 3. How is ESDC aligning to GC Digital Standards | 1. We work in the open<br> 2. We take an unconventional approach to strategy making |

<!-- markdownlint-enable MD033-->

#### Stakeholders

- IITB Senior Executives (DG and ADM)
- IITB Executives (Directors and Executive Directors)
- IITB Management (Managers and Team Leads)
- IITB Workforce
- Non-IITB ESDC executives (e.g. "The Business")
- General ESDC or other Government department personnel

#### Key Messages

For each Stakeholders, we need to identify the key messages (objective we want) they will need to hear from our Team.
For example:

- IITB Senior Executives
  - General Direction, Endorsements, and progress updates towards that direction via Identified Metrics
- IITB Management
  - Staffing-related and Management-related strategies (e.g. continuous learning objectives)
- IITB Workforce
  - Daily actions they can start doing today, tools at their disposal, forums at their disposal

Link to the "Communications Methods" at our disposal that can be used.

### Communications Methods

- [Endorsement](#endorsement)
- [Outreach](#outreach)
- [Feedback](#feedback)

#### Endorsement

To be official, strategies, actions and other initiatives, must be endorsed or approved by management (DG, CIO, DM, ..).
The following are way to get things endorsed.

##### CIO Executive Committee

Requires wider consultation and presentation to DG Committee.
Use for quarterly strategies and actions as well as other changes that require wider consultation.

Follow these steps:

1. Director Feedback/updates
1. Other teams feedback/updates
   - Security
   - Operations
   - Development
   - Databases
   - Learning
   - ..
1. DG feedback/updates
1. Present to DG Committee
1. Present to Architecture Review Committee
1. Present to CIO Executive Committee
1. Published on Intranet

##### Briefing Note

Can be sent directly to DG, CIO or DM, using organization reporting structure (hierarchy).
Use for information or to avoid going up through committees for Endorsement.

#### Outreach

Quarterly strategies and actions will start on 2020-04-01.
Every 3 months the strategies and actions will be updated based on feedback and progress.
New strategies and actions will be added based on strategy map (layer on the strategies).
The following are way to get things Outreached.

##### Emails

- Email from CIO about upcoming changes (quarterly strategies, SaaS access)
- Quarterly emails from DG about strategies and actions
- IITB News

##### Presentations

- SLF, MTLC, ..
- IITB Showcase, Dev CoP, GC DevOps League, ..

##### Blogs

- IT Strategy Website
- IITB blog
- Linkedin
- Twitter

#### Feedback

Feedback will inform how we move forward with quarterly strategies and actions as well as other initiatives.

- Short quarterly surveys about strategies and actions
- Gather feedback at presentations

### Evaluation

How will we measure ourselves on whether our communication strategy works or needs to be adjusted?
KPIs should be closely related to objectives but can also be used to support results in our actions. E.g.

- Number of hits on our website
- Number of endorsements received
- Number of forum events the team presented at
- Number of attendance at those forum events
- Number of feedbacks received as part of the Feedback loop Communications method
- Number of twitter retweets from CIO/IITB stakeholders
