_pages/en/web-services-access.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Enabling Access to Web Services and Tools at ESDC
ref: web-services-access
lang: en
status: posted
sections: Work In Progress
permalink: /web-services-access.html
---

## Enabling Access to Web Services and Tools at ESDC

### Purpose

To seek endorsement for IITB to enable open access to specific Software as a Service (SaaS) tools available on the Internet for IITB employees, as a step towards enabling open access to the Internet for ESDC employees.

### Background

The upcoming [Policy on Service and Digital](https://www.tbs-sct.gc.ca/pol/doc-eng.aspx?id=32603) replaces the [Policy on Acceptable Network and Device Use (PANDU)](https://www.tbs-sct.gc.ca/pol/doc-eng.aspx?id=27122) but keeps the intent to "provide open access to Internet tools and services to support public servants in their work duties, enhance collaboration and networking with their peers".
This Policy applies only to unclassified assets (data, information, code, ..).

### Issue

ESDC is currently blocking access to specific Web 2.0 collaboration tools like Google Docs, Google Hangouts and OneDrive.
Even though TBS policy generally recommends open access to these tools, ESDC's rationale for blocking them has been primarily to prevent accidental leak of protected information from employees.
This is a valid concern that must be mitigated with a balanced approach.

The proposed risk mitigation would be to augment the current Data Loss Prevention (DLP) by adding a tool that monitors and enforces classification of files and emails before they can be transmitted on the Internet.
However, as the evaluated options so far can be costly, implementation is not being considered for the short term.

Following current procedure, the additional SaaS tools would need to be added to ESDC Technology Bricks (alongside other approved SaaS like GitHub, Trello and Slack).
However, the value add of adding SaaS to Technology Bricks and Standards should be re-evaluated by considering the shared responsibility model of SaaS.
For instance, the maintenance and upkeep efforts of SaaS does not impact ESDC.

Finally, there is a discrepancy between the approved SaaS and what can actually be accessed on the network by employees (See [Appendix B](#appendix-b---saas-already-unblocked)).

### Considerations

More departments are using SaaS to collaborate and engage with citizens and other public administrations in Canada and the world.
For example, the latest Open Government Plan and the Service and Digital Target Architecture from TBS were shared as drafts for consultation and comments on Google Docs.
The GC Digital Academy and Free Agents, as well as other groups, frequently use Google Forms for registration.

In order to move forward, we propose a balanced approach in opening access to additional SaaS tools (See [Appendix A](#appendix-a---saas-to-enable)) to IITB employees in the short term, as a step toward more broader access in ESDC.
As IITB employees generally don't deal with protected information and are well informed and trained on the management of information, we anticipate the risk to be minimal.
On the other side, the benefits should bring great value such as enhancing collaboration and efficiency, increasing job satisfaction and helping in attracting and retaining IT talent.

### Recommendations

To support the adoption of the new [Policy on Service and Digital](https://www.tbs-sct.gc.ca/pol/doc-eng.aspx?id=32603), ESDC needs to:

- Enable additional SaaS tools (See [Appendix A](#appendix-a---saas-to-enable)) for IITB employees as a step towards enabling open access to the Internet for ESDC employees;
- Perform a thorough evaluation of security monitoring tools, such as DLP, to mitigate future risks associated with broader open access to Internet SaaS tools.
  Evaluate open source options and co-development with other organizations as well; and
- Review its technology brick criteria by considering the shared responsibility model of SaaS.

### Next Steps

The IT Strategy team will work with teams in IITB to:

- Ensure the following SaaS (See [Appendix A](#appendix-a---saas-to-enable)) are available and functional on the network for IITB employees;
- Ensure IITB employees' understanding of document classification and review access rights to data and information;
- Support an Options Analysis for tools to manage and monitor use of SaaS on the network; and
- Review with Technical Architecture the criteria and value add of SaaS in technology bricks.

## Appendix A - SaaS to Enable

### Instant Messaging (room-based)

#### Benefits

- Don't be restricted by Slack free plan of having access only to the 10 000 most recent messages
- Ability to encrypt communications (can be a good practice even for unclassified information)

|             | URL           | Notes  |
| ----------- |:-------------:| ------:|
| Riot IM | https://riot.im |  |
| RocketChat | https://open.rocket.chat |  |
| Slack (Websockets) | https://slack.com |  |

### Document Editing

#### Benefits

- Read, co-create, review and share documents

|             | URL           | Notes  |
| ----------- |:-------------:| ------:|
| Google Docs (Sheets, Slides, Forms) | https://docs.google.com |  |

### Web Conferencing

#### Benefits

- Meet with external stakeholders without the need to install or run a WebEx plugin (with sometimes limited success)

|             | URL           | Notes  |
| ----------- |:-------------:| ------:|
| Google Hangouts | https://hangouts.google.com |  |
| Jitsi Meet | https://meet.jit.si |  |

### Version Control System (VCS) and Project Management

#### Benefits

- Work on GitHub with SSH keys for better security

|             | URL           | Notes  |
| ----------- |:-------------:| ------:|
| Github | https://github.com | Websockets and SSH blocked |

### Email

#### Benefits

- Exchange with external IT professionals with a single email address (until @canada.ca)

|             | URL           | Notes  |
| ----------- |:-------------:| ------:|
| Google Mail | https://mail.google.com |  |
| Outlook | https://outlook.live.com |  |
| Yahoo Mail | https://mail.yahoo.com |  |

### File storage

#### Benefits

- Share and collaborate on documents with external stakeholders

|             | URL           | Notes  |
| ----------- |:-------------:| ------:|
| Dropbox | https://www.dropbox.com |  |
| Framadrop | https://framadrop.org |  |
| Google Drive | https://drive.google.com |  |
| Linshare | https://www.linshare.org |  |
| OneDrive | https://onedrive.live.com |  |
| pCloud | https://www.pcloud.com |  |

### Online learning and sandboxes

#### Benefits

- Experiment and learn Docker

|             | URL           | Notes  |
| ----------- |:-------------:| ------:|
| Docker Playground | https://labs.play-with-docker.com | Websockets blocked |

## Appendix B - SaaS already unblocked

Note: Inconsistent browser configurations (Websockets, 3rd party cookies blocked), SSH blocked

### Document Editing

|             | URL           | Notes  |
| ----------- |:-------------:| ------:|
| Framapad |  https://framapad.org |  |
| Office365 (pilot) | https://www.office.com |  |
| Zoho | https://www.zoho.com |  |
| ... |  |  |

### Version Control System (VCS) and Project Management

|             | URL           | Notes  |
| ----------- |:-------------:| ------:|
| Bitbucket | https://bitbucket.org |  |
| Framagit | https://framagit.org |  |
| Gitlab | https://gitlab.com |  |
| ... |  |  |

### Project management and Kanban

|             | URL           | Notes  |
| ----------- |:-------------:| ------:|
| Smartsheets | https://www.smartsheet.com/ |  |
| Trello | https://trello.com |  |
| Taiga | https://taiga.io |  |
| ZenHub | https://www.zenhub.com/ |  |
| Zube | https://zube.io | Websockets blocked |
| ... |  |  |

### Online learning and sandboxes

|             | URL           | Notes  |
| ----------- |:-------------:| ------:|
| Coursera | https://www.coursera.org |  |
| Edx | https://www.edx.org |  |
| Docker Classroom | https://training.play-with-docker.com |  |
| Udacity | https://www.udacity.com/ |  |
| Udemy | https://www.udemy.com/ |  |
| ... |  |  |

### Package/image registry

|             | URL           | Notes  |
| ----------- |:-------------:| ------:|
| Composer | https://getcomposer.org |  |
| Docker Hub | https://hub.docker.com |  |
| NPM JS | https://www.npmjs.com |  |
| Ruby Gems | https://rubygems.org |  |
| ... |  |  |

### Social networks

|             | URL           | Notes  |
| ----------- |:-------------:| ------:|
| Facebook | https://www.facebook.com |  |
| Librem One | https://librem.one |  |
| Linkedin | https://www.linkedin.com |  |
| Mastodon | https://mastodon.social |  |
| Twitter | https://twitter.com |  |
| ... |  |  |

### Streaming

|             | URL           | Notes  |
| ----------- |:-------------:| ------:|
| Vimeo | https://vimeo.com |  |
| YouTube | https://www.youtube.com |  |
| ... |  |  |

### Other

|             | URL           | Notes  |
| ----------- |:-------------:| ------:|
| Doodle | https://www.doodle.com |  |
| Eventbrite | https://www.eventbrite.ca |  |
| Slido | https://www.sli.do |  |
| Survey Monkey | https://www.surveymonkey.com |  |
| ... |  |  |

Commit message:

Remove Tech Bricks part (because only IITB)

_pages/en/web-services-access.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Enabling Access to Web Services and Tools at ESDC
ref: web-services-access
lang: en
status: posted
sections: Work In Progress
permalink: /web-services-access.html
---

## Enabling Access to Web Services and Tools at ESDC

### Purpose

To seek endorsement for IITB to enable open access to specific Web 2.0 Software as a Service (SaaS) tools available on the Internet for IITB employees, as a step towards enabling open access to the Internet for ESDC employees.

### Background

The upcoming [Policy on Service and Digital](https://www.tbs-sct.gc.ca/pol/doc-eng.aspx?id=32603) replaces the [Policy on Acceptable Network and Device Use (PANDU)](https://www.tbs-sct.gc.ca/pol/doc-eng.aspx?id=27122) but keeps the intent to "provide open access to Internet tools and services to support public servants in their work duties, enhance collaboration and networking with their peers".
This Policy applies only to unclassified assets (data, information, code, ..).

### Issue

ESDC is currently blocking access to specific Web 2.0 collaboration tools like Google Docs, Google Hangouts and OneDrive.
Even though TBS policy generally recommends open access to these tools, ESDC's rationale for blocking them has been primarily to prevent accidental leak of protected information from employees.
This is a valid concern that must be mitigated with a balanced approach.

The proposed risk mitigation is to augment the current Data Loss Prevention (DLP) with a tool that monitors and enforces classification of files and emails before they can be transmitted on the Internet.
However, as the evaluated options so far can be costly, implementation is not being considered for the short term.

### Considerations

More departments are using SaaS to collaborate and engage with citizens and other public administrations in Canada and the world.
For example, the latest Open Government Plan and the Service and Digital Target Architecture from TBS were shared as drafts for consultation and comments on Google Docs.
The GC Digital Academy and Free Agents, as well as other groups, frequently use Google Forms for registration.

In order to move forward, we propose a balanced approach in opening access to additional SaaS tools (See [Appendix A](#appendix-a---saas-to-enable)) to IITB employees in the short term, as a step toward more broader access in ESDC.
As IITB employees generally don't deal with protected information and are well informed and trained on the management of information, we anticipate the risk to be minimal.
On the other side, the benefits should bring great value such as enhancing collaboration and efficiency, increasing job satisfaction and helping in attracting and retaining IT talent.

### Recommendations

To support the adoption of the new [Policy on Service and Digital](https://www.tbs-sct.gc.ca/pol/doc-eng.aspx?id=32603), ESDC needs to:

- Enable additional Web 2.0 SaaS tools (See [Appendix A](#appendix-a---saas-to-enable)) for IITB employees as a step towards enabling open access to the Internet for ESDC employees; and
- Perform a thorough evaluation of security monitoring tools, such as DLP, to mitigate future risks associated with broader open access to Internet SaaS tools. Evaluate open source options and co-development with other organizations as well.

### Next Steps

The IT Strategy team will work with teams in IITB to:

- Ensure the following Web 2.0 SaaS tools (See [Appendix A](#appendix-a---saas-to-enable)) are available and functional on the network for IITB employees;
- Ensure IITB employees' understanding of document classification and review access rights to data and information;
- Support an options analysis for tools to manage and monitor use of SaaS on the network.

## Appendix A - SaaS to Enable

### Instant Messaging (room-based)

#### Benefits

- Don't be restricted by Slack free plan of having access only to the 10 000 most recent messages
- Ability to encrypt communications (can be a good practice even for unclassified information)

|             | URL           | Notes  |
| ----------- |:-------------:| ------:|
| Riot IM | https://riot.im |  |
| RocketChat | https://open.rocket.chat |  |
| Slack (Websockets) | https://slack.com |  |

### Document Editing

#### Benefits

- Read, co-create, review and share documents

|             | URL           | Notes  |
| ----------- |:-------------:| ------:|
| Google Docs (Sheets, Slides, Forms) | https://docs.google.com |  |

### Web Conferencing

#### Benefits

- Meet with external stakeholders without the need to install or run a WebEx plugin (with sometimes limited success)

|             | URL           | Notes  |
| ----------- |:-------------:| ------:|
| Google Hangouts | https://hangouts.google.com |  |
| Jitsi Meet | https://meet.jit.si |  |

### Version Control System (VCS) and Project Management

#### Benefits

- Work on GitHub with SSH keys for better security

|             | URL           | Notes  |
| ----------- |:-------------:| ------:|
| Github | https://github.com | Websockets and SSH blocked |

### Email

#### Benefits

- Exchange with external IT professionals with a single email address (until @canada.ca)

|             | URL           | Notes  |
| ----------- |:-------------:| ------:|
| Google Mail | https://mail.google.com |  |
| Outlook | https://outlook.live.com |  |
| Yahoo Mail | https://mail.yahoo.com |  |
| Fastmail | https://www.fastmail.com |  |
| Mailbox.org | https://mailbox.org |  |
| Posteo | https://posteo.de |  |

### File storage

#### Benefits

- Share and collaborate on documents with external stakeholders

|             | URL           | Notes  |
| ----------- |:-------------:| ------:|
| Dropbox | https://www.dropbox.com |  |
| Framadrop | https://framadrop.org |  |
| Google Drive | https://drive.google.com |  |
| Linshare | https://www.linshare.org |  |
| OneDrive | https://onedrive.live.com |  |
| pCloud | https://www.pcloud.com |  |

### Online learning and sandboxes

#### Benefits

- Experiment and learn Docker

|             | URL           | Notes  |
| ----------- |:-------------:| ------:|
| Docker Playground | https://labs.play-with-docker.com | Websockets blocked |

## Appendix B - SaaS already unblocked

Note: Inconsistent browser configurations (Websockets, 3rd party cookies blocked), SSH blocked

### Document Editing

|             | URL           | Notes  |
| ----------- |:-------------:| ------:|
| Framapad |  https://framapad.org |  |
| Office365 (pilot) | https://www.office.com |  |
| Zoho | https://www.zoho.com |  |
| ... |  |  |

### Version Control System (VCS) and Project Management

|             | URL           | Notes  |
| ----------- |:-------------:| ------:|
| Bitbucket | https://bitbucket.org |  |
| Framagit | https://framagit.org |  |
| Gitlab | https://gitlab.com |  |
| ... |  |  |

### Project management and Kanban

|             | URL           | Notes  |
| ----------- |:-------------:| ------:|
| Smartsheets | https://www.smartsheet.com/ |  |
| Trello | https://trello.com |  |
| Taiga | https://taiga.io |  |
| ZenHub | https://www.zenhub.com/ |  |
| Zube | https://zube.io | Websockets blocked |
| ... |  |  |

### Online learning and sandboxes

|             | URL           | Notes  |
| ----------- |:-------------:| ------:|
| Coursera | https://www.coursera.org |  |
| Edx | https://www.edx.org |  |
| Docker Classroom | https://training.play-with-docker.com |  |
| Udacity | https://www.udacity.com/ |  |
| Udemy | https://www.udemy.com/ |  |
| ... |  |  |

### Package/image registry

|             | URL           | Notes  |
| ----------- |:-------------:| ------:|
| Composer | https://getcomposer.org |  |
| Docker Hub | https://hub.docker.com |  |
| NPM JS | https://www.npmjs.com |  |
| Ruby Gems | https://rubygems.org |  |
| ... |  |  |

### Social networks

|             | URL           | Notes  |
| ----------- |:-------------:| ------:|
| Facebook | https://www.facebook.com |  |
| Librem One | https://librem.one |  |
| Linkedin | https://www.linkedin.com |  |
| Mastodon | https://mastodon.social |  |
| Twitter | https://twitter.com |  |
| ... |  |  |

### Streaming

|             | URL           | Notes  |
| ----------- |:-------------:| ------:|
| Vimeo | https://vimeo.com |  |
| YouTube | https://www.youtube.com |  |
| ... |  |  |

### Other

|             | URL           | Notes  |
| ----------- |:-------------:| ------:|
| Doodle | https://www.doodle.com |  |
| Eventbrite | https://www.eventbrite.ca |  |
| Slido | https://www.sli.do |  |
| Survey Monkey | https://www.surveymonkey.com |  |
| ... |  |  |
