wip-tec/en/EnableLearning.md, before:

# Enable Learning 

## Management must enable daily learning within their teams 

Activities which align to this include, though are not limited to 

- Ensuring learning materials are available to staff 
- Staff is guaranteed at least 1h minutes per day to be spent learning or improving how they work 
- Improving how they worked is defined as any activity to increase the efficiency of their work or a process 

This approach aligns with section [18.04, part a, item 3, of the Computer Systems Agreement Between the Treasury Board and the Professional Institute of the
Public Service of Canada](https://www.tbs-sct.gc.ca/agreements-conventions/view-visualiser-eng.aspx?id=1#toc12212212224) which reads, 

> carry out research in the employee’s field of specialization not specifically related to his assigned work projects when, in the opinion of the Employer, such research is needed to enable the employee to fill his present role more adequately;

_____

## Compliance with Collective Agreement

### 18.03 Attendance at conferences, conventions and courses

Career development refers to an activity which is, in the opinion of the Employer, likely to be of assistance to the employee in furthering career development and to the organization in achieving its goals. The following activities shall be deemed to be part of career development:
i. a course given by the Employer;
ii. a course offered by a recognized academic institution;
iii. a seminar, convention or study session in a specialized field directly related to the employee’s work.

To assist the department in promoting a modern environment which enables a culture of learning to flourish within Employment Services and Development Canada and the Government of Canada at large the following assumption (Option 1) should be explicitly validated or Option 2 should be added as an item under section a under 18.03 Attendance at conferences, conventions and courses

#### Option 1 

Interpret *study session* to include self directed study 

#### Option 2 

Propose a 4th line entry explicitly outlining that career development includes time given by the employer for the employee to dedicate a specific amount of time to continuous learning and continuous improvement within their domain.

_____

Commit message:

#146 adding language including learning from others within the org as learning, and including blameless postmortems

wip-tec/en/EnableLearning.md, after:

# Enable Learning 

## Management must enable daily learning within their teams 

Activities which align to this include, though are not limited to 

- Ensuring learning materials are available to staff 
- Staff is guaranteed at least 1h per day to be spent learning or improving how they work 
&nbsp;&nbsp;- Improving how they worked is defined as any activity to increase the efficiency of their work or a process 
- Conduct [blameless postmortems](https://landing.google.com/sre/sre-book/chapters/postmortem-culture/) following incidents 
- Learning includes learning from and about others from within your organisation. Encourage collaboration between groups, especially those adjacent in the [value stream](https://dzone.com/articles/value-stream-mapping-and-devops)
&nbsp;&nbsp;- For example, setup biweekly meetings with other groups within your department (including other branches and non-techical groups)

This approach aligns with section [18.04, part a, item 3, of the Computer Systems Agreement Between the Treasury Board and the Professional Institute of the
Public Service of Canada](https://www.tbs-sct.gc.ca/agreements-conventions/view-visualiser-eng.aspx?id=1#toc12212212224) which reads, 

> carry out research in the employee’s field of specialization not specifically related to his assigned work projects when, in the opinion of the Employer, such research is needed to enable the employee to fill his present role more adequately;

_____

## Compliance with Collective Agreement

### 18.03 Attendance at conferences, conventions and courses

Career development refers to an activity which is, in the opinion of the Employer, likely to be of assistance to the employee in furthering career development and to the organization in achieving its goals. The following activities shall be deemed to be part of career development:
i. a course given by the Employer;
ii. a course offered by a recognized academic institution;
iii. a seminar, convention or study session in a specialized field directly related to the employee’s work.

To assist the department in promoting a modern environment which enables a culture of learning to flourish within Employment Services and Development Canada and the Government of Canada at large the following assumption (Option 1) should be explicitly validated or Option 2 should be added as an item under section a under 18.03 Attendance at conferences, conventions and courses

#### Option 1 

Interpret *study session* to include self directed study 

#### Option 2 

Propose a 4th line entry explicitly outlining that career development includes time given by the employer for the employee to dedicate a specific amount of time to continuous learning and continuous improvement within their domain.

_____
