TeamMandate/Mandate.md, before:

# IT Strategy 

## Vision (image of the future) 

The Canadian Experience is real when the federal government leverages modern technologies to interact seamlessly with Canadians through digital infrastructure.

## Mission (team's reason for existence)

Be the initiator of change within IITB to lay the path for the evolution of ESDC's digital services.

This will be done through an open collaborative approach that will further ESDC's mandate in the digital era by aligning IITB with the Government of Canada's Digital Standards and Treasury Board's Policy on Service and Digital.

## Mandate (team's authority within IITB)

- Authority on Open Source documentation 
- Report to senior management on digital strategic objectives of ESDC
- Report to senior management on compliance with TBS directives 
- Authority to merge working groups, or committees, within IITB
- Report to senior management on our adherence to technological and policy trends (such as OECD AI Policy Observatory)
- Conduct inwards facing analysis of ESDC's IT processes
- Required approval for new project onboarding 

## Team's Guiding Principles 

### Add Value

All efforts must deliver measurable impacts. Implement strategies -- do not be a document factory 

### Work collaboratively

Collaborate with anyone and everyone who can _add value_. This includes, but is not limited to, all Canadians, all levels of government, all departments, all private sector organizations, and all governments. 

### Continuous learning

Learning must be a core part of daily activities to ensure up to date, modern, and well researched direction and strategy is provided to guide our actions. 

### Lead by Example

By using the approaches and technologies we champion, we will be able to better respond to, and anticipate, the challenges that will be faced. 

## Deliverables

Demonstrations **through action** of cutting edge approaches and methods. For example:
- Value added of GCCode as an official version control standard for the GC

Creation and trial of new processes and procedures. For example: 
- New software onboarding procedures 
- Governance for the management of Innovation Projects 
- Cloud administration methodologies (technical and financial)
- Implementation of Automated decision making tools 

IT Strategies. For example:
- Creation and implementation of Innovation Hubs
- Increase rate of Solution delivery 
- Increase rate of Software onboarding 
- Vendor Lock-in mitigation
- Scaling innovation
- Implement business use cases of AI within ESDC

 IT RoadMaps. For example:
- Maximizing innovation efforts by taking [the 11 Tips for Pitching Innovation in Government](https://medium.com/gc-entrepreneur/11-tips-for-pitching-innovation-in-government-9fceac5a3c9)
- DevOps Implementation 
- 3 year IITB service modernization plan
- 5 year IITB service modernization plan
- Implement bi-modal governance
- Implement product management

Reports. For example:
- Viability Analysis of Trending Tech
- Maturity Assessments

Guidance, advices, and awareness via:
- Whitepapers
- Presentations
- Case Studies
- Blog Posts
- Tweets

Commit message:

making recommended changes (still some remaining points for discussion)

TeamMandate/Mandate.md, after:

# IT Strategy 

## Vision (image of the future) 

The Canadian Experience is real when the federal government leverages modern technologies to interact seamlessly with Canadians through digital infrastructure.

## Mission (team's reason for existence)

Be the initiator of change within IITB to lay the path for the evolution of ESDC's digital services.

This will be done through an open collaborative approach that will further ESDC's mandate in the digital era by aligning IITB with the Government of Canada's Digital Standards and Treasury Board's Policy on Service and Digital.

## Mandate (team's authority within IITB)

- Briefing senior management on key organisational problems and recommended steps to address them
- Orchestrate the IT ecosystem to bring strategies to completion
- Permeate and enforce modern IT practices and processes 
- Authority to merge working groups, or committees, within IITB
- Conduct inwards facing analysis of ESDC's IT processes
- Required approval for new project onboarding 
- Provide recommendations on resource IT resource allocation 

## Team's Guiding Principles 

### Add Value

All efforts must deliver measurable impacts. Implement strategies -- do not be a document factory 

### Work collaboratively

Collaborate with anyone and everyone who can _add value_. This includes, but is not limited to, all Canadians, all levels of government, all departments, all private sector organizations, and all governments. 

### Continuous learning

Learning must be a core part of daily activities to ensure up to date, modern, and well researched direction and strategy is provided to guide our actions. 

### Lead by Example

By using the approaches and technologies we champion, we will be able to better respond to, and anticipate, the challenges that will be faced. 

## Deliverables

Demonstrations **through action** of cutting edge approaches and methods. For example:
- Value added of GCCode as an official version control standard for the GC

Creation and trial of new processes and procedures. For example: 
- New software onboarding procedures 
- Governance for the management of Innovation Projects 
- Cloud administration methodologies (technical and financial)
- Implementation of Automated decision making tools 

IT Strategies. For example:
- Creation and implementation of Innovation Hubs
- Increase rate of Solution delivery 
- Increase rate of Software onboarding 
- Vendor Lock-in mitigation
- Scaling innovation
- Implement business use cases of AI within ESDC

 IT RoadMaps. For example:
- Maximizing innovation efforts by taking [the 11 Tips for Pitching Innovation in Government](https://medium.com/gc-entrepreneur/11-tips-for-pitching-innovation-in-government-9fceac5a3c9)
- DevOps Implementation 
- 3 year IITB service modernization plan
- 5 year IITB service modernization plan
- Implement bi-modal governance
- Implement product management

Reports. For example:
- Viability Analysis of Trending Tech
- Maturity Assessments
- Adherence to technological and policy trends (such as OECD AI Policy Observatory)

Guidance, advices, and awareness via:
- Whitepapers
- Presentations
- Case Studies
- Blog Posts
- Tweets
