TeamMandate/Sébastien.md, before:

## Mandate

### ESDC

The mission of ESDC, including the Labour Program and Service Canada, is to build a stronger and more inclusive Canada, to support Canadians in helping them live productive and rewarding lives and to improve Canadians’ quality of life.

### IITB IT Strategy

The mission for IITB IT Strategy, is to support, nurture, share, explain and grow use of Open Source Software (OSS) and open standards, working in the open and Agile/DevOps methodologies at ESDC to help establish and execute on their digital strategies in clear terms, giving their leaders, developers, marketers, and other staff the tools they need to make OSS and DevOps a success within their operations and broader mandate.

## Role of IITB IT Strategy

The Open Source Software and DevOps Office (OSSDOO) provides knowledge and helps avoid or remove unneeded, rigid processes which creative developers may circumvent or ignore anyway, threatening security and other aspects of projects.
It does this by establishing the IT strategy and related processes that enable developers and their teams to get things done.
Finally, it encourages standard coding and organizational practices, processes, and toolsets as well as fosters an open culture within the organization.

### Strategy, Community, and Engagement

- Develop, maintain, and execute corporate digital strategy and policy
- Internal and external evangelism - Clearly communicating the OSS, Cloud and DevOps strategy within ESDC and the GC
- Represent OSS and DevOps views in internal policy discussions
- Launch new OSS projects, support releasing internal code
- Sponsor, publish, and speak at OSS and DevOps events
- Organize community events (GC DevOps League)
- Develop and deliver internal OSS and DevOps training
- Provide engineering mentorships to grow internal expertise
- Conduct internal technical workshops
- Advise on community matters

### OSS Legal Compliance
- Manage and support open source compliance process
- Advise on open source compliance
- Help resolve compliance inquiries
- Provide guidelines and checklists
- Track emerging open source legal concerns

## Source

[Linux Foundation Open Source Guides - Creating an Open Source Program](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/resources/open-source-guides/creating-an-open-source-program/)

Commit message:

Quick updates - Add core values

TeamMandate/Sébastien.md, after:

## Mission

### ESDC

The mission of ESDC, including the Labour Program and Service Canada, is to build a stronger and more inclusive Canada, to support Canadians in helping them live productive and rewarding lives and to improve Canadians’ quality of life.

### IITB IT Strategy

The mission for IITB IT Strategy, is to support, nurture, share, explain and grow use of Open Source Software (OSS) and open standards, working in the open and Agile/DevOps methodologies (cloud, what about cloud!) at ESDC to help establish and execute on their digital strategies in clear terms, giving their leaders, developers, marketers, and other staff the tools they need to make the digital strategy a success within their operations and broader mandate.

## Role of IITB IT Strategy

The Open Source Software and DevOps Office (OSSDOO) provides knowledge and helps avoid or remove unneeded, rigid processes which creative developers may circumvent or ignore anyway, threatening security and other aspects of projects.
It does this by establishing the IT strategy and related processes that enable developers and their teams to get things done.
Finally, it encourages standard coding and organizational practices, processes, and toolsets as well as fosters an open culture within the organization.

### Strategy, Community, and Engagement

- Develop, maintain, and execute corporate digital strategy and policy
- Internal and external evangelism - Clearly communicating the OSS, Cloud and DevOps strategy within ESDC and the GC
- Represent OSS and DevOps views in internal policy discussions
- Launch new OSS projects, support releasing internal code
- Sponsor, publish, and speak at OSS and DevOps events
- Organize community events (GC DevOps League)
- Develop and deliver internal OSS and DevOps training
- Provide engineering mentorships to grow internal expertise
- Conduct internal technical workshops
- Advise on community matters

### OSS Legal Compliance

- Manage and support OSS compliance process
- Advise on OSS compliance
- Help resolve compliance inquiries
- Provide guidelines and checklists
- Track emerging OSS legal concerns

## Core Values (From GCTools team)

1. Initiate action, lead by example, and be proud of your work.
1. Create fun, simple and inclusive experiences.
1. Work in the open.
1. Empower communities; enable and co-create solutions.
1. Serve our users and their needs, not ourselves.
1. Explore new ideas and technology; actively experiment.
1. Always be learning; don't assume. 

## Source

[Linux Foundation Open Source Guides - Creating an Open Source Program](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/resources/open-source-guides/creating-an-open-source-program/)
