presentations/en/2019-11-05-CIOEC-Mandate.md, before:

# IT Strategy team's mandate

## Purpose of CIOEC presentation

For discussion

---

## Context

- The new Policy on Service and Digital calls for a digital-first and digitally enabled government
- Demands for organizational technological competence will only increase going forward
- Business agility depends on technology agility
- The use of technology is costly and risky
- ESDC can no longer see technological problems as "just an IT problem"

<!-- markdownlint-disable -->
*The use of technology to deliver a mandate ***must*** be a shared accountability*
<!-- markdownlint-enable -->

Note:
ESDC corporate risk profile identifies IT as the #1 risk to the organization
"The very point of digital transformation is to reduce risk" - War & Peace & IT.

---

## IT Strategy team's mission

<!-- markdownlint-disable -->
*Reason for existence*

Enable the strategic value of IT within ESDC by ***reducing its risks*** and ***increasing business agility***.
<!-- markdownlint-enable -->

---

## Mandate (authority)

<!-- markdownlint-disable -->
1. Diagnose key problems
  * organizational problems
  * waste
  * impediments to rapid lead times, and
  * governance structures
<!-- markdownlint-enable -->

The aforementioned items inhibit the desired changes in behaviours required
 for a digital-first government

--
<!-- markdownlint-disable -->
2. Recommend specific course of actions to governance bodies to adopt new methods of managing IT risks 
<!-- markdownlint-enable -->

--

<!-- markdownlint-disable -->
3. Measure progress of adoption of strategies in IT teams and governance bodies as a performance indicator of the IT Strategy team
<!-- markdownlint-enable -->

--

<!-- markdownlint-disable -->
4. Challenge current thinking and approaches
<!-- markdownlint-enable -->

---

## Team's guiding principles
<!-- markdownlint-disable MD013 -->

--

Work collaboratively
Note:
Collaborate with anyone and everyone who can add value. This includes, but is not limited to, all Canadians, levels of government, departments, private sector organizations, and governments.

--

Continuous learning
Note:
Learning is a core part of daily activities to ensure up to date, modern, and well-researched direction.

--

Lead by Example
Note:
By using the approaches and technologies we champion, we are able to better respond and anticipate potential challenges. We also experiment with modern ways of working in order to demonstrate their value and effectiveness.

---

## Proposed IITB Mandated Priorities

--

Work in the open to avoid re-work

- Use a GIT-based version control system for all software
- Expose work in progress to other teams

Note:
ALL teams (developers, security, testing, operations) must use git.
ALL Sharepoint sites must allow any ESDC employees read access by default - only lock down what is absouletly necessary
Expose work in progress to improve team communication and share what you do with others to reduce administrative and organizational overhead
Leverage [Values and Ethics Code for the Public Sector](https://www.tbs-sct.gc.ca/pol/doc-eng.aspx?id=25049) as foundational trusts with employees
Encourages collaboration and fosters a culture of flexibility, mobility and well-being
Explore open source tools for quick wins and the reduction of re-work
Be open to contributions and constructive feedback from the get go

--

Core competencies (continous learning)

- All IT teams must use at least 20% of their time to learn, to automate manual processes, or improve the way they work.

Note:
IT teams must dedicate time to learn/try new technologies, attend events/conferences and stay up to date on trends and technologies related to their work
IT teams must dedicate time for automation of testing, deployments and other manual processes
Empower multidisciplinary teams and allow them to work on new ideas in pursuit of business goals that solve important problems

--

Modern tools

- Architecture must default to open standards and open source software
- Architecture must enable deploy-anytime capabilities and promote relentless use automation
- Access to common Internet (SaaS) must be open by default to IITB personnel

Note:
Public servants are more effective at delivering services, programs and policies when they have modern tools that help their work and a modern workplace.

Public servants need professional development that keeps up with changing times and changing technology (conferences have their use; however, there are *many* options and freely available resources to learn new tools and methods).

[Digital Operations Strategic Plan: 2018-2022](https://www.canada.ca/en/government/system/digital-government/digital-operations-strategic-plan-2018-2022.html)

--

Avoid Toil

- Relentless process automation
- All teams must have at least two members with knowledge of programming to assist with process automation

Note:
Toil is introduced when the approach to increasing effeciency is linear with respect to the amount of resources required.
Toil, for example, would be increased hiring for repetitive, automatable, work that would better be solved by time investment in automation.

Automation is not a project, it is a constant and incremental process.

Invest in automation: 1 month/year (e.g. august) dedicate entirely to automation and process improvement

--

Re-visit Investment Management practices

- Promote smaller investments over large ones
- Monitor investments based on business outcomes, not project plans
- Move and support product management
- Use Agile methodologies, iterate and continually improve solutions and services
- Promote hiring of those who demonstrate curiosity, adapatability, and ethical behaviour

Note:
Monitor investments on business outcomes, not project plans

<!-- markdownlint-enable MD013-->

Commit message:

modifying line to state government delivers services through technology, as per the comment

presentations/en/2019-11-05-CIOEC-Mandate.md, after:

# IT Strategy team's mandate

## Purpose of CIOEC presentation

For discussion

---

## Context

- The new Policy on Service and Digital calls for a digitally enabled government that delivers services through technology
- Demands for organizational technological competence will only increase going forward
- Business agility depends on technology agility
- The use of technology is costly and risky
- ESDC can no longer see technological problems as "just an IT problem"

<!-- markdownlint-disable -->
*The use of technology to deliver a mandate ***must*** be a shared accountability*
<!-- markdownlint-enable -->

Note:
ESDC corporate risk profile identifies IT as the #1 risk to the organization
"The very point of digital transformation is to reduce risk" - War & Peace & IT.

---

## IT Strategy team's mission

<!-- markdownlint-disable -->
*Reason for existence*

Enable the strategic value of IT within ESDC by ***reducing its risks*** and ***increasing business agility***.
<!-- markdownlint-enable -->

---

## Mandate (authority)

<!-- markdownlint-disable -->
1. Diagnose key problems
  * organizational problems
  * waste
  * impediments to rapid lead times, and
  * governance structures
<!-- markdownlint-enable -->

The aforementioned items inhibit the desired changes in behaviours required
 for a digital-first government

--
<!-- markdownlint-disable -->
2. Recommend specific course of actions to governance bodies to adopt new methods of managing IT risks 
<!-- markdownlint-enable -->

--

<!-- markdownlint-disable -->
3. Measure progress of adoption of strategies in IT teams and governance bodies as a performance indicator of the IT Strategy team
<!-- markdownlint-enable -->

--

<!-- markdownlint-disable -->
4. Challenge current thinking and approaches
<!-- markdownlint-enable -->

---

## Team's guiding principles
<!-- markdownlint-disable MD013 -->

--

Work collaboratively
Note:
Collaborate with anyone and everyone who can add value. This includes, but is not limited to, all Canadians, levels of government, departments, private sector organizations, and governments.

--

Continuous learning
Note:
Learning is a core part of daily activities to ensure up to date, modern, and well-researched direction.

--

Lead by Example
Note:
By using the approaches and technologies we champion, we are able to better respond and anticipate potential challenges. We also experiment with modern ways of working in order to demonstrate their value and effectiveness.

---

## Proposed IITB Mandated Priorities

--

Work in the open to avoid re-work

- Use a GIT-based version control system for all software
- Expose work in progress to other teams

Note:
ALL teams (developers, security, testing, operations) must use git.
ALL Sharepoint sites must allow any ESDC employees read access by default - only lock down what is absouletly necessary
Expose work in progress to improve team communication and share what you do with others to reduce administrative and organizational overhead
Leverage [Values and Ethics Code for the Public Sector](https://www.tbs-sct.gc.ca/pol/doc-eng.aspx?id=25049) as foundational trusts with employees
Encourages collaboration and fosters a culture of flexibility, mobility and well-being
Explore open source tools for quick wins and the reduction of re-work
Be open to contributions and constructive feedback from the get go

--

Core competencies (continous learning)

- All IT teams must use at least 20% of their time to learn, to automate manual processes, or improve the way they work.

Note:
IT teams must dedicate time to learn/try new technologies, attend events/conferences and stay up to date on trends and technologies related to their work
IT teams must dedicate time for automation of testing, deployments and other manual processes
Empower multidisciplinary teams and allow them to work on new ideas in pursuit of business goals that solve important problems

--

Modern tools

- Architecture must default to open standards and open source software
- Architecture must enable deploy-anytime capabilities and promote relentless use automation
- Access to common Internet (SaaS) must be open by default to IITB personnel

Note:
Public servants are more effective at delivering services, programs and policies when they have modern tools that help their work and a modern workplace.

Public servants need professional development that keeps up with changing times and changing technology (conferences have their use; however, there are *many* options and freely available resources to learn new tools and methods).

[Digital Operations Strategic Plan: 2018-2022](https://www.canada.ca/en/government/system/digital-government/digital-operations-strategic-plan-2018-2022.html)

--

Avoid Toil

- Relentless process automation
- All teams must have at least two members with knowledge of programming to assist with process automation

Note:
Toil is introduced when the approach to increasing effeciency is linear with respect to the amount of resources required.
Toil, for example, would be increased hiring for repetitive, automatable, work that would better be solved by time investment in automation.

Automation is not a project, it is a constant and incremental process.

Invest in automation: 1 month/year (e.g. august) dedicate entirely to automation and process improvement

--

Re-visit Investment Management practices

- Promote smaller investments over large ones
- Monitor investments based on business outcomes, not project plans
- Move and support product management
- Use Agile methodologies, iterate and continually improve solutions and services
- Promote hiring of those who demonstrate curiosity, adapatability, and ethical behaviour

Note:
Monitor investments on business outcomes, not project plans

<!-- markdownlint-enable MD013-->
