presentations/en/2019-11-12-OSS-Contributing.md, before:

# Contributing to an Open Source Project

Course material for Digital Academy, Fall 2019

Guillaume Charest, ESDC

<!--markdownlint-disable MD035-->

---

## Why

--

Instead of maintaining your own version, you can contribute to the project

Note:

* Maintaining a project is hard
* Takes time and resources
* Always new priorities
* Same as using OSS: leverage the mass of the community

--

Contributions that make it to the project get maintained by the community

Note:

* Everyone benefit from it
  * Others: new features
  * You: maintained updates

---

## What to contribute

--

* Source code
* Documentation
* Translation
* Issue and bug
* Security vulnerability
* Events

Note:

Events help build the community provide opportunity to learn

---

## How to contribute

--

1. Find the project repository
1. Verify the Licence
1. Verify the Contributing Process and Policies
1. Look at the documentation and the issues
1. Seek approvals (if necessary)

--

### Project Repository

* GitHub
* GitLab
* BitBucket

--

### Licence

If there's no open source licence...

Note:

It's not an open source project
[https://github.com/canada-ca/blog-dto](https://github.com/canada-ca/blog-dto)

--

### Process and Policies

* [Templates](https://help.github.com/en/github/building-a-strong-community/configuring-issue-templates-for-your-repository)
* Contributor Licence Agreement (CLA)
  * Complex, Legal Contract
  * Might even request transfer of IP to project owners
* [Developer Certificate of Origin (DCO)](https://developercertificate.org/)
  * Lightweight
  * "I have the right to submit this"

--

### Approvals

1. Copyright still belongs to the Crown
2. You're spending work time, it should be part of your workplan

Note:

* Not all departments will be ready
* May require additional guidance, framework and support

---

## First Task

(5 minutes)

--

### Let's try a contribution

Add your name to the project (link to be updated)

---

## Second Task

(10 minutes)

--

### Another contribution

1. Find one of the team's project on GitHub
2. Create:
   1. 1x Issue
   2. 1x Pull Request

---

## Third Task

(20 minutes)

--

### Manage the contributions

1. Review the pull requests on your project
2. Ask for a modification to the pull request
3. Once the change has been done
   1. Accept the PR
   2. Merge the PR

<!--markdownlint-enable MD035-->

Commit message:

Add link to project to contribute

presentations/en/2019-11-12-OSS-Contributing.md, after:

# Contributing to an Open Source Project

Course material for Digital Academy, Fall 2019

Guillaume Charest, ESDC

<!--markdownlint-disable MD035-->

---

## Why

--

Instead of maintaining your own version, you can contribute to the project

Note:

* Maintaining a project is hard
* Takes time and resources
* Always new priorities
* Same as using OSS: leverage the mass of the community

--

Contributions that make it to the project get maintained by the community

Note:

* Everyone benefit from it
  * Others: new features
  * You: maintained updates

---

## What to contribute

--

* Source code
* Documentation
* Translation
* Issue and bug
* Security vulnerability
* Events

Note:

Events help build the community provide opportunity to learn

---

## How to contribute

--

1. Find the project repository
1. Verify the Licence
1. Verify the Contributing Process and Policies
1. Look at the documentation and the issues
1. Seek approvals (if necessary)

--

### Project Repository

* GitHub
* GitLab
* BitBucket

--

### Licence

If there's no open source licence...

Note:

It's not an open source project
[https://github.com/canada-ca/blog-dto](https://github.com/canada-ca/blog-dto)

--

### Process and Policies

* [Templates](https://help.github.com/en/github/building-a-strong-community/configuring-issue-templates-for-your-repository)
* Contributor Licence Agreement (CLA)
  * Complex, Legal Contract
  * Might even request transfer of IP to project owners
* [Developer Certificate of Origin (DCO)](https://developercertificate.org/)
  * Lightweight
  * "I have the right to submit this"

--

### Approvals

1. Copyright still belongs to the Crown
2. You're spending work time, it should be part of your workplan

Note:

* Not all departments will be ready
* May require additional guidance, framework and support

---

## First Task

(5 minutes)

--

### Let's try a contribution

Add your name to the following [project](https://github.com/sara-sabr/wall-mur)

---

## Second Task

(10 minutes)

--

### Another contribution

1. Find one of the team's project on GitHub
2. Create:
   1. 1x Issue
   2. 1x Pull Request

Suggestion for the PR: Create a new blog entry!

---

## Third Task

(20 minutes)

--

### Manage the contributions

1. Review the pull requests on your project
2. Ask for a modification to the pull request
3. Once the change has been done
   1. Accept the PR
   2. Merge the PR

<!--markdownlint-enable MD035-->
