presentations/en/General-IT-and-strategy.md, before:


<!--markdownlint-disable MD033 MD036-->
# IT at ESDC

Innovation, Information, and Technology Branch

(Q1 2020)

---

## Agenda

1. Context within ESDC
2. Current priorities
3. The new IT Strategy

---

## 1. Context within ESDC

![IIT branch in relation to the others](assets/images/ESDC_overview.png)

Note:

- Why am I showing you this? Wait a bit... (will highlight how technology is ubiquitous)

--

### IITB's Vision Statement

_Powered by innovative thinking and approaches, delivering efficient, reliable and secure services and solutions of best value to Clients_

Note:

- We are working towards that vision
- Legacy technology, changing of priorities, and current organizational structure make this challenging
- IT Strategy is looking to help the branch get to this vision

--

### Stuff that we do

- Enterprise Architecture
- IT Solutions
- Communication services
- Workplace Technology (e.g. Service Desk)
- Information Management (IM) & IT Security services
- IM/IT Program Management Services

Note:

source: [Business model for IITB](http://esdc.prv/en/iitb/corporate/Who_We_Are/Organizational_Structure/organizational_model.shtml)
EXAMPLES:

- Enterprise Architecture = align IM/IT investments with Business priorities
- IT solutions = Softwares (including procurement), Portals, corporate systems like HR and Finance
- Comms services = Storage, network, telephony infrastructure (SSC)
- Workplace Tech = Desktop, mobile computers and smartphones
- IM/IT sec services = Security accreditations, accessibility, meet Government regulations

--

### Partners we deal with

- Other Government of Canada departments (CRA, IRCC, SSC, TBS, PSPC)
- Provinces and Territories
- Suppliers (e.g. Xerox)
- Advisors (Gartner, Deloitte, [DORA](https://cloud.google.com/devops/))

--

### What it all rolls up to

IITB manages:

- 91 active (or on hold) projects
- 500 applications, 101 mission critical
- XX 1,400 upgrades/changes annually
- XX 320,000 service requests annally

Note:

- EI, CPP, and OAS rely on 150 custom build applications and an aged mainframe
- Source of data: [2019-22 plan](http://dialogue/grp/BU6810070/Shared%20Documents/Reference%20Materials/ESDC%20IT%20Plan%202019-22.pdf), [Project Centre](https://gpp-ppm.service.gc.ca/sites/pwa/Projects.aspx), and [IITB Business Model](http://esdc.prv/en/iitb/corporate/doc/IITBBusinessModel.pdf) from IntraWeb

--

### View from within

![the 6 districts within IITB](assets/images/IITB_org_overview.png)

Note:

- Demographic source (Workforce Demographic Profile Q2 2019-2020)
- Planning: internal branch workforce (HR, Finance, Accomodations), audit, policy compliance. E.g. new ESDC employee affects our forecasts
- SABR: architecture, business relations, STRATEGY, R&D, PMO
- Enterprise Ops: the ones that get woken up at night. Desktops, Service Desk, IT Security, Accessibility, SSC
- BSIM: IM, ESDC Portal, Mobile, Interoperability
- BSI: Application Operations, EI, OAS, CPP, Skills, Employment, and Partner Solutions
- BOSS: Enterprise Resource Planning Solutions, Shared Resources, Testing, Data Services and Data Analytics

--

### Where are your IITB peers

Total Number of Employees in IITB: **2,197**

![IITB Workforce Distribution in the country](assets/images/IITB_workforce_distribution.png)

Note:

- Demographic data from [Workforce Demographic Profile Q2 2019-2020](http://dialogue/grp/BU6810070/Shared%20Documents/Reference%20Materials/Workforce_Demographic_Profile_Q2_2019-2020.pdf)
- Western Canada & Territories: 6.7%, Ontario: 12.8%, Quebec: 8.8%, NCR: 62.4%, Atlantic: 9.4%
- A-base (ongoing):
- B-base (sun-setting, special purpose):
- Funding source: [2019-2021 IT Plan](http://dialogue/grp/BU6810070/Shared%20Documents/Reference%20Materials/ESDC%20IT%20Plan%202019-22.pdf)

---

## 2. Current IM/IT priorities

- To Canadians (18)
- To ESDC (12)
- To employees (8)
- Foundational (8)

Note:

- The following 5 slides are to get some empathy from our ESDC colleagues
- 46 priorities devided into 4 categories:
  - To Canadians
  - To ESDC
  - To employees
  - Foundational
- Source from ESDC IT Plan 2019-2022

--

### Departmental IM/IT Priorities

To Canadians:

- Service Modernization
  - Benefits Delivery Modernization (BDM)
  - Service Transformation Plan (STP)
  - OAS Improvement Strategy (OAS-IS)
  - Integrated Labour Systems (ILS)
  - Hosted Contact Centre Solution (HCCS)
  - Passport Modernization Initiative (PMI)
  - OneGC
  - Canada Pension Plan Enhancement (CPPe)
  - In-Person Network Improvement Project
- Service Sustainability
  - Canada Pension Plan Service Improvement Srategy (CPP-SIS)
  - Employment Insurance Measures - Budget 2017
  - Employment Insurance Measures - Budget 2018
- Service Operations
  - Temporary Foreign Worker System and Web Service Enhancements 2.0
  - Maintaining Operations
  - Canada Student Loans Program (CSLP) - E-Services re-procurement
  - Security
  - Grants and Contribution Modernization
  - Fraud

--

### Departmental IM/IT Priorities (cont'd)

To ESDC:

- Service Modernization
  - Departmental Accounts Receivable System (DARS) Replacement
  - HR Modernization
  - Information Management forward (EDRMS)
  - Data Science and Analytics
  - Service Transformation Plan - Initial Service Improvements (STP-ISI)
  - 1 800 O-Canada Operating Model Review and Procurement
  - Wave 2 Contact Centre Migrations
  - Upgrade Older Windows OS
  - Maturing the Departmental Service Bus (DSB)
- Service Operations
  - Maintaining Operations
  - Security
  - Emergency Management Application System

--

### Departmental IM/IT Priorities (cont'd)

To Employees:

- Service Modernization
  - Mobility / Activity Based Workplace (go mobile vs desktop)
  - Collaboration (GCTools, GitHub, Open Source)
- Service Sustainability
  - Desktop Software Refresh (Windows 10)
  - Office 365
  - Regional Service Plan (improve regions)
- Accessibility
  - Technology
- Service Operations
  - Desktop Support
  - National Service Desk

--

### Departmental IM/IT Priorities (cont'd)

Foundational:

- IT Service Management
  - Solution Development Lifecycle (SDLC) improvements
  - Software Asset Management improvements
- Workforce
  - National Workforce Strategy (recruitment)
- Service Sustainability / Technical debt
  - Network Modernization
  - Technical Debt
- Strategy and innovation
  - Research
  - Cloud
  - Innovation (proof of concepts)

Note:

- e.g. PoC: grassroots innovation program, chatbot, acceleration hub, co-design with citizens
- On Technical Debt: Corporate Risk Profile identified IT as its #1 risk (age of systems)

--

### IITB's internal Priorities

- Sustainability Plan
- Upkeep of existing systems throughout their life cycle
- Build capacity for new technologies (e.g. Cloud)
- Attracting and retaining talent (attrition)
- [IITB Way Forward](http://dialogue/grp/IITB-DGIIT-Gov-New-Nouveau/Documents/Departmental%20IMIT%20Plan/19-20%20Plans/IITB%20Moving%20Forward%20v2.docx)

Note:

- Sustainability plan: financing legacy systems until BDM can replace them
- APM - systems evolve over time and must be kept up to date (patching, security, versioning from vendors)
- upkeep e.g.: migrating or eliminating 70 applications
- attrition: average age is 45.8, and 10.9% eligible to retire in next 5 years
- IITB Way Forward: 26 service improvement and internal modernization activities to improve our service offerings

--

### Technology is ubiquitous

![IT within all the branches](assets/images/ESDC_overview_ubiquitous_tech.png)

Note:

- Show the image at the beginning of the presentation
- The proportion of IT in the department does not reflect a single branch, technology is everywhere

---

## 3. The IT Strategy

### Premise

> To work effectively in the digital world, you must first accept complexity and uncertainty, for they demand very different approach to carrying out initiatives. A predictable world rewards advanced planning and rigid plan execution. But a complex and uncertain world rewards an empirical cycle of trying, observing, and correcting

Note:

- Many external forces:
  - upcoming [TB Policy on Service and Digital](https://www.tbs-sct.gc.ca/pol/doc-eng.aspx?id=32603)
  - [GC Digital Operations Strategic Plan](https://www.canada.ca/en/government/system/digital-government/digital-operations-strategic-plan-2018-2022.html)
  - [OneGC Vision](https://gccollab.ca/groups/profile/154708/enonegc-ungcfrungc)
  - [BDM](http://esdc.prv/en/intersection/2019/10/tr1_10-21_1571928232401.shtml)

--

### Focus of the IT Strategy

_Change the relationship IT has with "The Business"_

- From a **contracting** model one
- To a **partnership** one

_We are all on the same team, looking to solve problems_

Note:

- Contracting: expects business requirements and we deliver on requirements
- Partnership: we are one team looking to solve a problem

--

### What it means

_Shared accountability_

- Lines of business must understand the costs and risks associated with technology
- IT must be able to keep up with business changes

Note:

- What business problem(s), specifically, do we think investment in technology will solve?
- large projects are risky and may spend money where it's not needed
- reduce the space between the user and the IT team working to help her
- what is written in MS Word does not produce warning/errors until they are in systems
- Keep up with demand: IT must deliver much faster

--

### How we are **doing** strategy making

In the Open. All are welcome and invited to comment and contribute to the strategies at all times

Customers, private sector partners, other levels of government, or other departments...

[Link to our workspace](https://sara-sabr.github.io/ITStrategy)

Note:

- We purposefully put our content on the internet so that it is discoverable and shareable outside ESDC

--

### Focused areas of the IT Strategy

- Increase responsiveness of IT
- Moving from Project to Product Management
- 21 DevOps capabilities (DORA), including job satisfaction
- Adoption of Open Source, as a philosophy
- Automation to allow staff to focus on meaningful work
- Enable IITB teams to design for users with users, iterate and improve frequently

Link to [Strategy Map](strategy-summary.html)

Note:

- Responsiveness: using cloud technologies and automation. Goal to have daily releases to production
- Product Mgt: This has financial model implication
- Product Mgt: achieve locality of decisions (loose coupling and independence) to increase responsiveness
- DORA: Institute that studies high performing technology organizations
- Open Source: part of the [Mandate of the new Digital Minster](https://pm.gc.ca/en/mandate-letters/minister-digital-government-mandate-letter)
- Open Source: can be used to attract talent! and benefit from economies of scale
- IT investments: reduce risks to the organization, treating business cases like a hypothesis

--

### Goals

- Get the user _IN_ the development process
- Continuously learn, automate and improve
- Reduce lead time for changes and delivery of services/devices
- Recover faster incidents and errors
- Reduce frequency of incidents and errors
- Align with GC IT Direction

Note:

- GC IT Direction: Policy on Service and Digital, Digital Standards, Digital Strategic Operation Plan

--

## Additional Resources

- [ESDC IT Plan 2019-2022](http://dialogue/grp/BU5946064/Qualiware%20Working%20Groups%20WG/Repository%20Content%20Framework%20Working%20Group/IT%20Plan%202019-2021.pdf)
- [IITB's IntraWeb Corner](http://esdc.prv/en/iitb/index.shtml)
- [IITB's list of Business Relationship Managers](http://dialogue/grp/CRM-GRC/Points%20of%20Contact/Forms/AllItems.aspx)
- [IT Strategy team's workspace](https://sara-sabr.github.io/ITStrategy)
- [IT Strategy's Medium Term IT Picture - 2025](it-picture-medium-term.html)

---

<!--markdownlint-disable MD026-->
## Question ?
<!--markdownlint-enable MD026-->

Commit message:

added IITB Newsletter reference for network modernization details

presentations/en/General-IT-and-strategy.md, after:


<!--markdownlint-disable MD033 MD036-->
# IT at ESDC

Innovation, Information, and Technology Branch

(Q1 2020)

---

## Agenda

1. Context within ESDC
2. Current priorities
3. The new IT Strategy

---

## 1. Context within ESDC

![IIT branch in relation to the others](assets/images/ESDC_overview.png)

Note:

- Why am I showing you this? Wait a bit... (will highlight how technology is ubiquitous)

--

### IITB's Vision Statement

_Powered by innovative thinking and approaches, delivering efficient, reliable and secure services and solutions of best value to Clients_

Note:

- We are working towards that vision
- Legacy technology, changing of priorities, and current organizational structure make this challenging
- IT Strategy is looking to help the branch get to this vision

--

### Stuff that we do

- Enterprise Architecture
- IT Solutions
- Communication services
- Workplace Technology (e.g. Service Desk)
- Information Management (IM) & IT Security services
- IM/IT Program Management Services

Note:

source: [Business model for IITB](http://esdc.prv/en/iitb/corporate/Who_We_Are/Organizational_Structure/organizational_model.shtml)
EXAMPLES:

- Enterprise Architecture = align IM/IT investments with Business priorities
- IT solutions = Softwares (including procurement), Portals, corporate systems like HR and Finance
- Comms services = Storage, network, telephony infrastructure (SSC)
- Workplace Tech = Desktop, mobile computers and smartphones
- IM/IT sec services = Security accreditations, accessibility, meet Government regulations

--

### Partners we deal with

- Other Government of Canada departments (CRA, IRCC, SSC, TBS, PSPC)
- Provinces and Territories
- Suppliers (e.g. Xerox)
- Advisors (Gartner, Deloitte, [DORA](https://cloud.google.com/devops/))

--

### What it all rolls up to

IITB manages:

- 91 active (or on hold) projects
- 500 applications, 101 mission critical
- XX 1,400 upgrades/changes annually
- XX 320,000 service requests annally

Note:

- EI, CPP, and OAS rely on 150 custom build applications and an aged mainframe
- Source of data: [2019-22 plan](http://dialogue/grp/BU6810070/Shared%20Documents/Reference%20Materials/ESDC%20IT%20Plan%202019-22.pdf), [Project Centre](https://gpp-ppm.service.gc.ca/sites/pwa/Projects.aspx), and [IITB Business Model](http://esdc.prv/en/iitb/corporate/doc/IITBBusinessModel.pdf) from IntraWeb

--

### View from within

![the 6 districts within IITB](assets/images/IITB_org_overview.png)

Note:

- Demographic source (Workforce Demographic Profile Q2 2019-2020)
- Planning: internal branch workforce (HR, Finance, Accomodations), audit, policy compliance. E.g. new ESDC employee affects our forecasts
- SABR: architecture, business relations, STRATEGY, R&D, PMO
- Enterprise Ops: the ones that get woken up at night. Desktops, Service Desk, IT Security, Accessibility, SSC
- BSIM: IM, ESDC Portal, Mobile, Interoperability
- BSI: Application Operations, EI, OAS, CPP, Skills, Employment, and Partner Solutions
- BOSS: Enterprise Resource Planning Solutions, Shared Resources, Testing, Data Services and Data Analytics

--

### Where are your IITB peers

Total Number of Employees in IITB: **2,197**

![IITB Workforce Distribution in the country](assets/images/IITB_workforce_distribution.png)

Note:

- Demographic data from [Workforce Demographic Profile Q2 2019-2020](http://dialogue/grp/BU6810070/Shared%20Documents/Reference%20Materials/Workforce_Demographic_Profile_Q2_2019-2020.pdf)
- Western Canada & Territories: 6.7%, Ontario: 12.8%, Quebec: 8.8%, NCR: 62.4%, Atlantic: 9.4%
- A-base (ongoing):
- B-base (sun-setting, special purpose):
- Funding source: [2019-2021 IT Plan](http://dialogue/grp/BU6810070/Shared%20Documents/Reference%20Materials/ESDC%20IT%20Plan%202019-22.pdf)

---

## 2. Current IM/IT priorities

- To Canadians (18)
- To ESDC (12)
- To employees (8)
- Foundational (8)

Note:

- The following 5 slides are to get some empathy from our ESDC colleagues
- 46 priorities devided into 4 categories:
  - To Canadians
  - To ESDC
  - To employees
  - Foundational
- Source from ESDC IT Plan 2019-2022

--

### Departmental IM/IT Priorities

To Canadians:

- Service Modernization
  - Benefits Delivery Modernization (BDM)
  - Service Transformation Plan (STP)
  - OAS Improvement Strategy (OAS-IS)
  - Integrated Labour Systems (ILS)
  - Hosted Contact Centre Solution (HCCS)
  - Passport Modernization Initiative (PMI)
  - OneGC
  - Canada Pension Plan Enhancement (CPPe)
  - In-Person Network Improvement Project
- Service Sustainability
  - Canada Pension Plan Service Improvement Srategy (CPP-SIS)
  - Employment Insurance Measures - Budget 2017
  - Employment Insurance Measures - Budget 2018
- Service Operations
  - Temporary Foreign Worker System and Web Service Enhancements 2.0
  - Maintaining Operations
  - Canada Student Loans Program (CSLP) - E-Services re-procurement
  - Security
  - Grants and Contribution Modernization
  - Fraud

--

### Departmental IM/IT Priorities (cont'd)

To ESDC:

- Service Modernization
  - Departmental Accounts Receivable System (DARS) Replacement
  - HR Modernization
  - Information Management forward (EDRMS)
  - Data Science and Analytics
  - Service Transformation Plan - Initial Service Improvements (STP-ISI)
  - 1 800 O-Canada Operating Model Review and Procurement
  - Wave 2 Contact Centre Migrations
  - Upgrade Older Windows OS
  - Maturing the Departmental Service Bus (DSB)
- Service Operations
  - Maintaining Operations
  - Security
  - Emergency Management Application System

--

### Departmental IM/IT Priorities (cont'd)

To Employees:

- Service Modernization
  - Mobility / Activity Based Workplace (go mobile vs desktop)
  - Collaboration (GCTools, GitHub, Open Source)
- Service Sustainability
  - Desktop Software Refresh (Windows 10)
  - Office 365
  - Regional Service Plan (improve regions)
- Accessibility
  - Technology
- Service Operations
  - Desktop Support
  - National Service Desk

--

### Departmental IM/IT Priorities (cont'd)

Foundational:

- IT Service Management
  - Solution Development Lifecycle (SDLC) improvements
  - Software Asset Management improvements
- Workforce
  - National Workforce Strategy (recruitment)
- Service Sustainability / Technical debt
  - Network Modernization
  - Technical Debt
- Strategy and innovation
  - Research
  - Cloud
  - Innovation (proof of concepts)

Note:

- See [IITB Newsletter for Network modernization](http://esdc.prv/en/iitb/corporate/news/2019/20200120.shtml#h1)
  - Targetted network fix now (end-user experience, infrastructure, data centers, the North)
  - Boost 11 OAS processing centres across the country
  - Rebuilding the ESDC network to support future needs (for mobile and cloud)
- e.g. PoC: grassroots innovation program, chatbot, acceleration hub, co-design with citizens
- On Technical Debt: Corporate Risk Profile identified IT as its #1 risk (age of systems)

--

### IITB's internal Priorities

- Sustainability Plan
- Upkeep of existing systems throughout their life cycle
- Build capacity for new technologies (e.g. Cloud)
- Attracting and retaining talent (attrition)
- [IITB Way Forward](http://dialogue/grp/IITB-DGIIT-Gov-New-Nouveau/Documents/Departmental%20IMIT%20Plan/19-20%20Plans/IITB%20Moving%20Forward%20v2.docx)

Note:

- Sustainability plan: financing legacy systems until BDM can replace them
- APM - systems evolve over time and must be kept up to date (patching, security, versioning from vendors)
- upkeep e.g.: migrating or eliminating 70 applications
- attrition: average age is 45.8, and 10.9% eligible to retire in next 5 years
- IITB Way Forward: 26 service improvement and internal modernization activities to improve our service offerings

--

### Technology is ubiquitous

![IT within all the branches](assets/images/ESDC_overview_ubiquitous_tech.png)

Note:

- Show the image at the beginning of the presentation
- The proportion of IT in the department does not reflect a single branch, technology is everywhere

---

## 3. The IT Strategy

### Premise

> To work effectively in the digital world, you must first accept complexity and uncertainty, for they demand very different approach to carrying out initiatives. A predictable world rewards advanced planning and rigid plan execution. But a complex and uncertain world rewards an empirical cycle of trying, observing, and correcting

Note:

- Many external forces:
  - upcoming [TB Policy on Service and Digital](https://www.tbs-sct.gc.ca/pol/doc-eng.aspx?id=32603)
  - [GC Digital Operations Strategic Plan](https://www.canada.ca/en/government/system/digital-government/digital-operations-strategic-plan-2018-2022.html)
  - [OneGC Vision](https://gccollab.ca/groups/profile/154708/enonegc-ungcfrungc)
  - [BDM](http://esdc.prv/en/intersection/2019/10/tr1_10-21_1571928232401.shtml)

--

### Focus of the IT Strategy

_Change the relationship IT has with "The Business"_

- From a **contracting** model one
- To a **partnership** one

_We are all on the same team, looking to solve problems_

Note:

- Contracting: expects business requirements and we deliver on requirements
- Partnership: we are one team looking to solve a problem

--

### What it means

_Shared accountability_

- Lines of business must understand the costs and risks associated with technology
- IT must be able to keep up with business changes

Note:

- What business problem(s), specifically, do we think investment in technology will solve?
- large projects are risky and may spend money where it's not needed
- reduce the space between the user and the IT team working to help her
- what is written in MS Word does not produce warning/errors until they are in systems
- Keep up with demand: IT must deliver much faster

--

### How we are **doing** strategy making

In the Open. All are welcome and invited to comment and contribute to the strategies at all times

Customers, private sector partners, other levels of government, or other departments...

[Link to our workspace](https://sara-sabr.github.io/ITStrategy)

Note:

- We purposefully put our content on the internet so that it is discoverable and shareable outside ESDC

--

### Focused areas of the IT Strategy

- Increase responsiveness of IT
- Moving from Project to Product Management
- 21 DevOps capabilities (DORA), including job satisfaction
- Adoption of Open Source, as a philosophy
- Automation to allow staff to focus on meaningful work
- Enable IITB teams to design for users with users, iterate and improve frequently

Link to [Strategy Map](strategy-summary.html)

Note:

- Responsiveness: using cloud technologies and automation. Goal to have daily releases to production
- Product Mgt: This has financial model implication
- Product Mgt: achieve locality of decisions (loose coupling and independence) to increase responsiveness
- DORA: Institute that studies high performing technology organizations
- Open Source: part of the [Mandate of the new Digital Minster](https://pm.gc.ca/en/mandate-letters/minister-digital-government-mandate-letter)
- Open Source: can be used to attract talent! and benefit from economies of scale
- IT investments: reduce risks to the organization, treating business cases like a hypothesis

--

### Goals

- Get the user _IN_ the development process
- Continuously learn, automate and improve
- Reduce lead time for changes and delivery of services/devices
- Recover faster incidents and errors
- Reduce frequency of incidents and errors
- Align with GC IT Direction

Note:

- GC IT Direction: Policy on Service and Digital, Digital Standards, Digital Strategic Operation Plan

--

## Additional Resources

- [ESDC IT Plan 2019-2022](http://dialogue/grp/BU5946064/Qualiware%20Working%20Groups%20WG/Repository%20Content%20Framework%20Working%20Group/IT%20Plan%202019-2021.pdf)
- [IITB's IntraWeb Corner](http://esdc.prv/en/iitb/index.shtml)
- [IITB's list of Business Relationship Managers](http://dialogue/grp/CRM-GRC/Points%20of%20Contact/Forms/AllItems.aspx)
- [IT Strategy team's workspace](https://sara-sabr.github.io/ITStrategy)
- [IT Strategy's Medium Term IT Picture - 2025](it-picture-medium-term.html)

---

<!--markdownlint-disable MD026-->
## Question ?
<!--markdownlint-enable MD026-->
