presentations/en/Micro-acquisition_PPOC.md, before:

<!--markdownlint-disable MD001 MD033 MD026 MD036 -->
<style>
.reveal section img { background:none; border:none; box-shadow:none; }
</style>

# Micro-Acquisition pilot

Lite-2020-0119

Proposal seeking approval

---

## Stakeholders

- **Executive Sponsors:** Martin Mondor (IITB) and Robert MacGillivary (CFOB)
- **IITB Lead:** Martin Mondor
- **Proposal Contact:** Rachel Muston
- **Client Lead:** Matthew Diedrick, Hugo Desgent-Barbe
- **BRM Contact:** Amos Lee
- **EA Contact:** Erin Rowlinson
- **Others:** Suppliers, ESDC clients, Office of Small and Medium Enterprise (PSPC), ESDC/PSPC Legal

Note:

- this proposed pilot is being co-sponsored by IITB and CFOB

---

## What is the Micro-Acquisition pilot?

A one-year experimental pilot procurement vehicle for custom code licensed as open source. All work must:

- Have a value of $10K or less
- Be unclassified
- Be virtual
- Be done in an open repository (e.g., GitHub, GitLab)

Note:

- Risk is very low on Low Dollar Value procurements under the sole source threshold. Even more so for those​ under the proactive disclosure threshold of $10K
- remote work - this goes without saying now because of COVID but the important point to note here is that in addition to physical access, no remote access to ESDC networks is required. Nor is the use for any ESDC devices. This along with the 'unclassified work only' requirement would mean that suppliers would not need to be GC security cleared.
- only contracts initiated by ESDC
- Opportunities for micro-acquisitions are widely publicized to suppliers and barriers to entry (such as years of experience, needing to pre-qualify, security clearance) are removed/reduced

- Through a **simplified and expedited** process that **reduces the barriers** that these organizations (including start-ups) and freelancers face, and a **targeted communications strategy** (to diverse businesses such as those that are Black, and Indigenous led), this pilot is **expected to increase access to IT talent that the GC is currently missing out on**
- Why do we want to do this?  Because strategic procurement of open source code can bring knowledge into IT teams that is not currently there. Suppliers can be contracted to solve problems and when they turn over the open source code, ESDC IT teams will be able to learn from suppliers in almost a train the trainer sort of way. This would enable IITB to build capacity in-house and embed modern tools and practices within IITB teams.
- Further, contributions to GC open source projects, or open source projects being leveraged by the GC, has the **potential to be leveraged as a recruitment tool** for IITB. (CDS has experienced this with COVID Alert)

---

## Why look at an alternate way to procure digital work?

- Barriers to suppliers means reduced access to talent
- Lots of time spent formalizing low dollar value contracts
- Procurement officers face capacity issues
- Sharing and reusing code is not the norm
- Technical skills gaps exist

Note:
- aka what is the problem that we are solving?
- 95% of SMEs surveyed in 2017 do not see the GC as a buyer. In a recent procurement ombudsman report GC standing offers and supply arrangements are 'cumbersome to use and difficult to qualify for. They also seem to disproportionately favour suppliers in the NCR'. As a result, the GC doesn't get the opportunity to benefit from many of the amazing developer talent that exists in Canada.
- low dollar value contracts go through the same process as larger, more risky and complex procurements. Although procurement processes at ESDC are becoming streamlined (including initiatives like contract on demand), getting external help for small pieces of ad hoc development work (say to fix a bug or to build a small prototype) still takes weeks. In the world of open source, where the code is freely available to anyone to fix and access immediately, and when IT is moving towards a DevOps/agile way of working (where changes to IT systems can, and should, be made daily), it is necessary to have a procurement process that can move equally as fast. Without fast procurement we hinder our ability to deliver high-quality IT solutions.
- procurement officers are facing even more capacity issues now during COVID. In their Procurement in 2020 and Beyond report, Gartner recommends 5 shifts regarding digital procurement. One of these involves shifting the ownership for low and mid-tier purchases away from corporate procurement teams so that they can focus primarily on strategic, high value, high-risk purchases.
- Does the way we procure impact the sharing of digital work? Even though a lot of custom code is procured with the IP transferring to the GC (yes?). Code is not often shared within a department or with other departments.
- Eg. a team that wants to automate their work but doesn't know scripting

- but what about existing procurement vehicles?  Yep....ProServices is a great supply arrangement from PSPC but getting on the pre-approved list of suppliers takes time (often 6 months) and has requirements that create barriers to those who are newly working in the field of IT or in the gig economy.
- Capacity on Demand contracts are an excellent procurement innovation that once set up allows procurement to happen in weeks, however, the contracts are established with a single company which often means freelancers and start-ups are less likely to bid.

---

## Alignment

- ESDC Mandate
- Digital Operations Strategic Plan
- Digital Nations Charter commitment
- Directive on Service and Digital
- ESDC Investment Plan

Note:

- there is strong alignment to policy and mandate for this experimental pilot ESDC's mandate of "works to improve the standard of living and quality of life for all Canadians. We do this by promoting a labour force that is highly skilled. We also promote an efficient and inclusive labour market." It makes ESDC a good fit to lead this initiative. Especially during COVID when many are facing unemployment and underemployment.
- Digital Operations Strategic Plan – which speaks to the need for Procurement Modernization for IT specifically, Agility, and Open Source​
- Digital Nations Charter commitment (formerly D9) – Open Standards, Open Source, Open Markets, Open Government, and which Canada is a signatory
- Directive on Service and Digital – Open First​
- ESDC Investment plan (2017-18 to 2022-23) – Emphasizes the use of OSS​

---

## Expected Benefits

- Increased participation and access to developers who wouldn’t normally bid on GC IT contracts
- Increased working in the open by ESDC
- Reduced workload burden on ESDC procurement officers
- Increased ESDC capabilities around agile, including breaking work up into smaller chunks
- Increased speed of payment of suppliers

Note:

- reduced burden on procurement officers means they can focus on high risk, complex procurements
- breaking work out into smaller work packages enables same-day delivery and drives high organizational performance

---

## Forecasted costs

<table>
 <tr>
   <th>Fiscal Year</th>
   <th>CS-02</th>
   <th>CS-03</th>
   <th>CS-04</th>
   <th>PG-03</th>
   <th>PG-05</th>
   <th>EX-01</th>
   <th>Total Sal</th>
   <th>Total Non-Sal</th>
   <th>Total</th>
 </tr>
 <tr>
   <td>2020-21</td>
   <td> -- </td>
   <td>$10,768</td>
   <td>$2,178</td>
   <td>$476</td>
   <td>$1,306</td>
   <td>$799</td>
   <td>$15,527</td>
   <td>$58</td>
   <td>$15,585</td>

 </tr>
 <tr>
   <td>2021-22</td>
   <td>$35444</td>
   <td>$141249</td>
   <td>$21787</td>
   <td>$2898</td>
   <td>$9940</td>
   <td> -- </td>
   <td>$211,319</td>
   <td>$57,064 </td>
   <td>$268,383 </td>
 </tr>
   <tr>
   <td>2022-23</td>
   <td>$11,638</td>
   <td>$33,571</td>
   <td>$4,357</td>
   <td>--</td>
   <td>$1,326</td>
   <td>$50,893</td>
   <td>--</td>
   <td>$50,893</td>

 </tr>
 <tr>
   <td>Total</td>
   <td></td>
   <td></td>
   <td></td>
   <td></td>
   <td></td>
   <td></td>
   <td></td>
   <td>$334,861</td>
 </tr>
</table>

Notes: 
- Salary is all existing resources. 
- Does not include corporate costs from the CW
- Link to Cost workbook


Note:

- Salary costs are direct costs only and the non-salary costs are the direct non-salary costs.  Not included in this table are the indirect non-salary costs from the costing worksheet (e.g. EBP and other indirect costs)
- only new funding being sought is the $50K for 2021-22 to be used by SABR to complete micro-procurements and also to provide a float to pay suppliers where a budget transfer is required.

---

## Project schedule/milestones

- **Jan. week 1:** Approvals
- **Jan. week 3:** Mock-up approved
- **May week 1:** Development complete
- **May week 3:** Stakeholders sign off
- **May 2021 to May 2022:** Pilot in operation
- **June 2022:** Project closeout

Note:

- "development complete" includes not just the development of the technical solution but also the development of the processes, the generic terms and conditions, the user documentation, the audit and monitoring process, communication pieces

---

## Solution Architecture and Design

All existing products and/or Approved Tech Bricks

- Stand-alone website to post opportunities
- Free hosting via GitHub pages
- Procured code will be shared on open repositories
- Actual procurement and payment will be done via existing systems (e.g., SAP)

Note:

- Stand alone website to be accessible by the general public
- Admin for the site (including the loading of opportunities will be done by the IT Strategy Team)
- All opportunities will be reviewed by both IT Strategy and initially CFOB to ensure rules are met
- "open repositories" e.g. GitHub, GitLab

---

## The non-technical build

1. Simplified procurement processes -  
    e.g., Payment via credit card/PayPal
2. Procurement guardrails (e.g., contract splitting)
3. Develop generic terms and conditions

Note: we are really glad to be partnering with CFOB on this.

---

## Minimizing Risk

- Partnership with CFOB
- Automated security code checking
- Taking lessons learned from others who have done micro-procurement
- Tabletop exercise
- Using standard safeguards against outsourcing

Note:

- to help us navigate through procurement rules and legal considerations - contract splitting training, monitoring and auditing, legal terms and conditions (including IP)
- passing the security code check will be built into the acceptance criteria. You don't pass, you don't get paid.
- Industry (bug bounty), US, BC, GCDevEx
- run through scenarios using personas to test processes, roles/responsibilities, and to refine artefacts.
- standard checklist saying that 'this is a stand-alone piece of work, no internal capacity exists'

- Will be working with CFOB to mitigate the risk of contract splitting (likely through a combo of education, and audit
- IP and Copyright around GC procurement of open source code is a relatively new area so we are working with the IP CoE within CFOB and lawyers at ISED who work on IP policy. But the general direction we are going in is that the supplier holds the IP but that they licence the work as open source so that the GC (and anyone) can re-use it.
- There will be QA of code that is submitted.  Passing security screening will be one of the acceptance criteria (need to pass in order to get paid). Various options to look at including automated tools (e.g. for code on GitHub, they have a code scanning feature). We've talked to CDS about this as they also only use open source code.... "we had Semmle's previous offering "LGTM" as a requirement for all CDS OS projects, and so will transition it all over to this (code scanning)".  
- Re: unions... we firmly believe that this is not about increasing outsourcing.  The micro-procurements are intended to supplement the work of employees in short bursts where capacity (from time, knowledge, etc.) issues exist. Once these barriers have been removed, employees can progress with their work.
- We are also working with CFOB on this.  One suggestion so far has been that any micro-procurement contract would include similar questions that must be answered during any procurement (e.g., confirm that capacity does not exist in-house).  It has been suggested that we go the National Union Management Committee to be completely transparent about this pilot and we are looking into this.

---

## Annex A: Others doing Micro-purchasing

- Private industry
- US Government
- BC Government
- Yukon Government (in development)
- QC Government (in development)

Note:

- Lots of folks for us to learn from who are already doing this
- Many external companies (e.g., Bug Bounty Programs and [goquotes.ca](https://goquotes.ca))
- US Government has a Micro-purchase threshold that they just increased to $10K and a number of teams are experimenting with this threshold around the procurement of open source code
- BC Government has the BC Digital Marketplace (run by their BC Developers Exchange team) which is their micro-procurement platform.  They have had this for many years. They started small and ultimately went up to $70K for their micro-procurement 'Code with us' platform and as much as $2M for their associated 'Sprint with us' platform. They have really led the way and we are connected with them and learning from them.
- QC Government - had conversations with them...they are also looking at implementing micro-procurement of open source code

---

## Annex B: The GC Developers Exchange

<img src="assets/images/gcdevex.jfif" alt="This image shows the former GC Developers Exchange website">

Note:

- The GC Developers Exchange was the GC's first experiment with micro-procurement for open source code.
  - It was launched in 2017 by Privy Council Office (in partnership with TBS and PSPC).
  - It was built on code that was forked from the BC Developers Exchange.
  - All contracts awarded via GCDevEx were $10K and under, and were for virtual and unclassified work only (eliminating the need for a supplier security check).
- The GCDevEx pilot created many lessons learned:
  - a **simplified back-end process is required** not just a front end to connect the GC with developers
  - GC isn't used to breaking work into smaller chunks
  - the proposal creation process needs to be easier (no more than 2 hrs of work for supplier and also not overly burdensome for clients)
- The pilot was shelved at PCO after one contract as we were unable to get the finance folks on board to change back end processes and also due to resourcing issues and mandate of the department.

---

## Questions?

--

## Contact Us

- EDSC.DGIIT.StrategieTI-ITStrategy.IITB.ESDC@hrsdc-rhdcc.gc.ca
- https://sara-sabr.github.io/ITStrategy
- https://sara-sabr.slack.com

--

## More info

- [Micro-Acquisition Pilot page](micro-acquisition-pilot.html)
- [Better tech through micro-procurement pt1](2020/08/12/better-tech-through-microprocurement-p1.html) and [pt2](2020/12/18/better-tech-through-micro-procurementpt2.html) (blog posts)
- [US GSA - Experimenting with the Micro-Purchase Threshold](https://digital.gov/2020/04/24/experimenting-with-micropurchase-threshold/)

Commit message:

Update to the project schedule slide

presentations/en/Micro-acquisition_PPOC.md, after:

<!--markdownlint-disable MD001 MD033 MD026 MD036 -->
<style>
.reveal section img { background:none; border:none; box-shadow:none; }
</style>

# Micro-Acquisition pilot

Lite-2020-0119

Proposal seeking approval

---

## Stakeholders

- **Executive Sponsors:** Martin Mondor (IITB) and Robert MacGillivary (CFOB)
- **IITB Lead:** Martin Mondor
- **Proposal Contact:** Rachel Muston
- **Client Lead:** Matthew Diedrick, Hugo Desgent-Barbe
- **BRM Contact:** Amos Lee
- **EA Contact:** Erin Rowlinson
- **Others:** Suppliers, ESDC clients, Office of Small and Medium Enterprise (PSPC), ESDC/PSPC Legal

Note:

- this proposed pilot is being co-sponsored by IITB and CFOB

---

## What is the Micro-Acquisition pilot?

A one-year experimental pilot procurement vehicle for custom code licensed as open source. All work must:

- Have a value of $10K or less
- Be unclassified
- Be virtual
- Be done in an open repository (e.g., GitHub, GitLab)

Note:

- Risk is very low on Low Dollar Value procurements under the sole source threshold. Even more so for those​ under the proactive disclosure threshold of $10K
- remote work - this goes without saying now because of COVID but the important point to note here is that in addition to physical access, no remote access to ESDC networks is required. Nor is the use for any ESDC devices. This along with the 'unclassified work only' requirement would mean that suppliers would not need to be GC security cleared.
- only contracts initiated by ESDC
- Opportunities for micro-acquisitions are widely publicized to suppliers and barriers to entry (such as years of experience, needing to pre-qualify, security clearance) are removed/reduced

- Through a **simplified and expedited** process that **reduces the barriers** that these organizations (including start-ups) and freelancers face, and a **targeted communications strategy** (to diverse businesses such as those that are Black, and Indigenous led), this pilot is **expected to increase access to IT talent that the GC is currently missing out on**
- Why do we want to do this?  Because strategic procurement of open source code can bring knowledge into IT teams that is not currently there. Suppliers can be contracted to solve problems and when they turn over the open source code, ESDC IT teams will be able to learn from suppliers in almost a train the trainer sort of way. This would enable IITB to build capacity in-house and embed modern tools and practices within IITB teams.
- Further, contributions to GC open source projects, or open source projects being leveraged by the GC, has the **potential to be leveraged as a recruitment tool** for IITB. (CDS has experienced this with COVID Alert)

---

## Why look at an alternate way to procure digital work?

- Barriers to suppliers means reduced access to talent
- Lots of time spent formalizing low dollar value contracts
- Procurement officers face capacity issues
- Sharing and reusing code is not the norm
- Technical skills gaps exist

Note:
- aka what is the problem that we are solving?
- 95% of SMEs surveyed in 2017 do not see the GC as a buyer. In a recent procurement ombudsman report GC standing offers and supply arrangements are 'cumbersome to use and difficult to qualify for. They also seem to disproportionately favour suppliers in the NCR'. As a result, the GC doesn't get the opportunity to benefit from many of the amazing developer talent that exists in Canada.
- low dollar value contracts go through the same process as larger, more risky and complex procurements. Although procurement processes at ESDC are becoming streamlined (including initiatives like contract on demand), getting external help for small pieces of ad hoc development work (say to fix a bug or to build a small prototype) still takes weeks. In the world of open source, where the code is freely available to anyone to fix and access immediately, and when IT is moving towards a DevOps/agile way of working (where changes to IT systems can, and should, be made daily), it is necessary to have a procurement process that can move equally as fast. Without fast procurement we hinder our ability to deliver high-quality IT solutions.
- procurement officers are facing even more capacity issues now during COVID. In their Procurement in 2020 and Beyond report, Gartner recommends 5 shifts regarding digital procurement. One of these involves shifting the ownership for low and mid-tier purchases away from corporate procurement teams so that they can focus primarily on strategic, high value, high-risk purchases.
- Does the way we procure impact the sharing of digital work? Even though a lot of custom code is procured with the IP transferring to the GC (yes?). Code is not often shared within a department or with other departments.
- Eg. a team that wants to automate their work but doesn't know scripting

- but what about existing procurement vehicles?  Yep....ProServices is a great supply arrangement from PSPC but getting on the pre-approved list of suppliers takes time (often 6 months) and has requirements that create barriers to those who are newly working in the field of IT or in the gig economy.
- Capacity on Demand contracts are an excellent procurement innovation that once set up allows procurement to happen in weeks, however, the contracts are established with a single company which often means freelancers and start-ups are less likely to bid.

---

## Alignment

- ESDC Mandate
- Digital Operations Strategic Plan
- Digital Nations Charter commitment
- Directive on Service and Digital
- ESDC Investment Plan

Note:

- there is strong alignment to policy and mandate for this experimental pilot ESDC's mandate of "works to improve the standard of living and quality of life for all Canadians. We do this by promoting a labour force that is highly skilled. We also promote an efficient and inclusive labour market." It makes ESDC a good fit to lead this initiative. Especially during COVID when many are facing unemployment and underemployment.
- Digital Operations Strategic Plan – which speaks to the need for Procurement Modernization for IT specifically, Agility, and Open Source​
- Digital Nations Charter commitment (formerly D9) – Open Standards, Open Source, Open Markets, Open Government, and which Canada is a signatory
- Directive on Service and Digital – Open First​
- ESDC Investment plan (2017-18 to 2022-23) – Emphasizes the use of OSS​

---

## Expected Benefits

- Increased participation and access to developers who wouldn’t normally bid on GC IT contracts
- Increased working in the open by ESDC
- Reduced workload burden on ESDC procurement officers
- Increased ESDC capabilities around agile, including breaking work up into smaller chunks
- Increased speed of payment of suppliers

Note:

- reduced burden on procurement officers means they can focus on high risk, complex procurements
- breaking work out into smaller work packages enables same-day delivery and drives high organizational performance

---

## Forecasted costs

<table>
 <tr>
   <th>Fiscal Year</th>
   <th>CS-02</th>
   <th>CS-03</th>
   <th>CS-04</th>
   <th>PG-03</th>
   <th>PG-05</th>
   <th>EX-01</th>
   <th>Total Sal</th>
   <th>Total Non-Sal</th>
   <th>Total</th>
 </tr>
 <tr>
   <td>2020-21</td>
   <td> -- </td>
   <td>$10,768</td>
   <td>$2,178</td>
   <td>$476</td>
   <td>$1,306</td>
   <td>$799</td>
   <td>$15,527</td>
   <td>$58</td>
   <td>$15,585</td>

 </tr>
 <tr>
   <td>2021-22</td>
   <td>$35444</td>
   <td>$141249</td>
   <td>$21787</td>
   <td>$2898</td>
   <td>$9940</td>
   <td> -- </td>
   <td>$211,319</td>
   <td>$57,064 </td>
   <td>$268,383 </td>
 </tr>
   <tr>
   <td>2022-23</td>
   <td>$11,638</td>
   <td>$33,571</td>
   <td>$4,357</td>
   <td>--</td>
   <td>$1,326</td>
   <td>$50,893</td>
   <td>--</td>
   <td>$50,893</td>

 </tr>
 <tr>
   <td>Total</td>
   <td></td>
   <td></td>
   <td></td>
   <td></td>
   <td></td>
   <td></td>
   <td></td>
   <td>$334,861</td>
 </tr>
</table>

Notes: 
- Salary is all existing resources. 
- Does not include corporate costs from the CW
- Link to Cost workbook


Note:

- Salary costs are direct costs only and the non-salary costs are the direct non-salary costs.  Not included in this table are the indirect non-salary costs from the costing worksheet (e.g. EBP and other indirect costs)
- only new funding being sought is the $50K for 2021-22 to be used by SABR to complete micro-procurements and also to provide a float to pay suppliers where a budget transfer is required.

---

## Project schedule/milestones

- **March 2021:** Project approval
- **April 2021:** Mock-up approved
- **May 2021:** Development and testing
- **June 2021 - June 2022:** Pilot in operation
- **June 2022:** Project closeout


Note:

- "development and testing" includes not just the development of the technical solution but also the development of the processes, the generic terms and conditions, the user documentation, the audit and monitoring process, communication pieces

---

## Solution Architecture and Design

All existing products and/or Approved Tech Bricks

- Stand-alone website to post opportunities
- Free hosting via GitHub pages
- Procured code will be shared on GitHub or Gitlab
- Actual procurement and payment will be done via existing systems (e.g., SAP)

Note:

- Stand alone website to be accessible by the general public
- Admin for the site (including the loading of opportunities will be done by the IT Strategy Team)
- All opportunities will be reviewed by both IT Strategy and initially CFOB to ensure rules are met
- "open repositories" e.g. GitHub, GitLab

---

## The non-technical build

1. Simplified procurement processes -  
    e.g., Payment via credit card/PayPal
2. Procurement guardrails (e.g., contract splitting)
3. Develop generic terms and conditions

Note: we are really glad to be partnering with CFOB on this.

---

## Minimizing Risk

- Partnership with CFOB
- Automated security code checking
- Taking lessons learned from others who have done micro-procurement
- Tabletop exercise
- Using standard safeguards against outsourcing

Note:

- to help us navigate through procurement rules and legal considerations - contract splitting training, monitoring and auditing, legal terms and conditions (including IP)
- passing the security code check will be built into the acceptance criteria. You don't pass, you don't get paid.
- Industry (bug bounty), US, BC, GCDevEx
- run through scenarios using personas to test processes, roles/responsibilities, and to refine artefacts.
- standard checklist saying that 'this is a stand-alone piece of work, no internal capacity exists'

- Will be working with CFOB to mitigate the risk of contract splitting (likely through a combo of education, and audit
- IP and Copyright around GC procurement of open source code is a relatively new area so we are working with the IP CoE within CFOB and lawyers at ISED who work on IP policy. But the general direction we are going in is that the supplier holds the IP but that they licence the work as open source so that the GC (and anyone) can re-use it.
- There will be QA of code that is submitted.  Passing security screening will be one of the acceptance criteria (need to pass in order to get paid). Various options to look at including automated tools (e.g. for code on GitHub, they have a code scanning feature). We've talked to CDS about this as they also only use open source code.... "we had Semmle's previous offering "LGTM" as a requirement for all CDS OS projects, and so will transition it all over to this (code scanning)".  
- Re: unions... we firmly believe that this is not about increasing outsourcing.  The micro-procurements are intended to supplement the work of employees in short bursts where capacity (from time, knowledge, etc.) issues exist. Once these barriers have been removed, employees can progress with their work.
- We are also working with CFOB on this.  One suggestion so far has been that any micro-procurement contract would include similar questions that must be answered during any procurement (e.g., confirm that capacity does not exist in-house).  It has been suggested that we go the National Union Management Committee to be completely transparent about this pilot and we are looking into this.

---

## Annex A: Others doing Micro-purchasing

- Private industry
- US Government
- BC Government
- Yukon Government (in development)
- QC Government (in development)

Note:

- Lots of folks for us to learn from who are already doing this
- Many external companies (e.g., Bug Bounty Programs and [goquotes.ca](https://goquotes.ca))
- US Government has a Micro-purchase threshold that they just increased to $10K and a number of teams are experimenting with this threshold around the procurement of open source code
- BC Government has the BC Digital Marketplace (run by their BC Developers Exchange team) which is their micro-procurement platform.  They have had this for many years. They started small and ultimately went up to $70K for their micro-procurement 'Code with us' platform and as much as $2M for their associated 'Sprint with us' platform. They have really led the way and we are connected with them and learning from them.
- QC Government - had conversations with them...they are also looking at implementing micro-procurement of open source code

---

## Annex B: The GC Developers Exchange

<img src="assets/images/gcdevex.jfif" alt="This image shows the former GC Developers Exchange website">

Note:

- The GC Developers Exchange was the GC's first experiment with micro-procurement for open source code.
  - It was launched in 2017 by Privy Council Office (in partnership with TBS and PSPC).
  - It was built on code that was forked from the BC Developers Exchange.
  - All contracts awarded via GCDevEx were $10K and under, and were for virtual and unclassified work only (eliminating the need for a supplier security check).
- The GCDevEx pilot created many lessons learned:
  - a **simplified back-end process is required** not just a front end to connect the GC with developers
  - GC isn't used to breaking work into smaller chunks
  - the proposal creation process needs to be easier (no more than 2 hrs of work for supplier and also not overly burdensome for clients)
- The pilot was shelved at PCO after one contract as we were unable to get the finance folks on board to change back end processes and also due to resourcing issues and mandate of the department.

---

## Questions?

--

## Contact Us

- EDSC.DGIIT.StrategieTI-ITStrategy.IITB.ESDC@hrsdc-rhdcc.gc.ca
- https://sara-sabr.github.io/ITStrategy
- https://sara-sabr.slack.com

--

## More info

- [Micro-Acquisition Pilot page](micro-acquisition-pilot.html)
- [Better tech through micro-procurement pt1](2020/08/12/better-tech-through-microprocurement-p1.html) and [pt2](2020/12/18/better-tech-through-micro-procurementpt2.html) (blog posts)
- [US GSA - Experimenting with the Micro-Purchase Threshold](https://digital.gov/2020/04/24/experimenting-with-micropurchase-threshold/)
