presentations/en/SLF.md, before:

<!--markdownlint-disable MD001 MD033 MD026-->
# Senior Leadership Forum

ESDC IT Strategy

2020-01-29

---

<img src="assets/images/slf-presentation-smartphone-adoption-infographic-v2-1007.png" alt="Graph of smartphone adoption rate: 1 billion users took 16 years but only 4 years to reach 2 billion" height="85%" width="85%">

Note:

- Change is already here, we are experiencing it right now
- The upcoming Policy on Service and Digital, OneGC, and the GC Digital Stanards, is the GC catching up with citizens expectations
- Banks are training investment bankers to code. Source: https://www.techrepublic.com/article/why-big-banks-are-requiring-workers-to-learn-coding/
- Cars now have hundred millions lines of codes. Source: https://www.technologyreview.com/s/508231/many-cars-have-a-hundred-million-lines-of-code/

--

![Number of CVEs over time](./assets/images/slf-presentation-cve-overtime.png)

Note:

- This graph represents the number of Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE) over a 20 year timespan
- Security vulnerabilities and exposures are also increasing exponentially
- Source: https://www.cvedetails.com/

--

![Change is the only constant, and its rate is accelerating](./assets/images/arrow_animated.gif)

--

### Change is the only constant, and its rate is accelerating

--

![Accessibily act infographic](./assets/images/slf-presentation-accessibility.jpg)

Note:

- Accessibility is one example. Cyber-Security, Information Management, responsible use of public funds can also be added to the list

--

### How are you handling those changes right now?

1. How often, per month, do your priorities change?
2. How often do you have to revisit your project estimates?
3. How many of your commitments depend on another team's ability to deliver?

Note:

- Ask 3 questions to the audience to get their impression
- Hypothesis of results in line with Public Service Employee Survey for ESDC CS category. Source: https://www.tbs-sct.gc.ca/pses-saff/2019/results-resultats/bq-pq/02/dem9424-eng.aspx
- In particular following questions:
  - Q17. I can complete my assigned workload during my regular working hours: CS5 = 33% rarely or almost never
  - Q18a. I feel that the quality of my work suffers because of... constantly changing priorities: CS4 = 48%, CS5 = 40% always or often
  - Q18d. I feel that the quality of my work suffers because of... unreasonable deadlines" CS4 = 38%, CS5 = 48% always or often
  - Q40. I feel that change is managed well in my department or agency: CS4 = 28%, CS5 = 26% somewhat or strongly disagree
  - Q74b. Overall, to what extent do the following factors cause you stress at work? Heavy workload, CS4 = 41$, CS5 = 52% large or very large extent
  - Q74c. Overall, to what extent do the following factors cause you stress at work? Unreasonable deadlines, CS4 = 27%, CS5 = 39% large or very large extent
  - Q74d. Overall, to what extent do the following factors cause you stress at work? Not enough employees to do the work, CS4 = 35%, CS5 = 29% large or very large extent

---

![Mandate: helping you navigate through change](./assets/images/slf-presentation-mandate.jpg)

Note:

- We want to enable IT to rapidely respond to changes
- We do this by reducing risks and enabling untapped strategic value of technology
- The idea here is accepting complexity and finding new methods of managing IT investements
- E.g. reduce project sizes, improve information flow between teams, make it less onerous to approve change, use emperical evidence to inform decisions
- E.g. of problems identified: AppDev SAs release process needing 13 separate teams and up to 46 interactions

---

![Approach: Diagnose, Recommend, Measure, Enable New Ways](./assets/images/slf-presentation-approach.jpg)

Note:

1. Diagnose
   - Work transparently with our users
   - clearly identify problems
   - Research best practices
2. Recommendations
   - Enabling new ways of thinking
   - Strategies and actions that work for both the working level and management
3. Measuring Progress
   - Progress with metrics, non-invasive
   - use emperical evidence to course correct
4. Improvement
   - Enabling new ways of working and ensuring we retire the old ones (Organizational Debt)

---

### Questions

---

### Supporting Slides

--

### Examples of topics

The following are examples of topics the team is exploring:

1. Using 20% of time to learn and improve
2. Reducing toil to focus on meaningful work
3. Transitioning from project to product management
4. Loose coupling of solutions to enable more independence for product teams

--

### References

1. [IT Strategy Map](https://sara-sabr.github.io/ITStrategy/strategy-summary.html)
2. [GC digital standards](https://www.canada.ca/en/government/system/digital-government/government-canada-digital-standards.html)
3. [GC Digital Operations Strategic Plan 2018-2022](https://www.canada.ca/en/government/system/digital-government/digital-operations-strategic-plan-2018-2022.html)
4. [Upcoming Policy on Service and Digital](https://www.tbs-sct.gc.ca/pol/doc-eng.aspx?id=32603)
5. [IITB Way Forward](http://dialogue/grp/IITB-DGIIT-Gov-New-Nouveau/Documents/Departmental%20IMIT%20Plan/19-20%20Plans/IITB%20Moving%20Forward%20v2.docx)

Commit message:

moved some notes (from first slide, to the change is constant slide

presentations/en/SLF.md, after:

<!--markdownlint-disable MD001 MD033 MD026-->
# Senior Leadership Forum

ESDC IT Strategy

2020-01-29

---

<img src="assets/images/slf-presentation-smartphone-adoption-infographic-v2-1007.png" alt="Graph of smartphone adoption rate: 1 billion users took 16 years but only 4 years to reach 2 billion" height="85%" width="85%">

Note:

- Change is already here, we are experiencing it right now

--

![Number of CVEs over time](./assets/images/slf-presentation-cve-overtime.png)

Note:

- This graph represents the number of Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE) over a 20 year timespan
- Security vulnerabilities and exposures are also increasing exponentially
- Source: https://www.cvedetails.com/

--

![Change is the only constant, and its rate is accelerating](./assets/images/arrow_animated.gif)

- The upcoming Policy on Service and Digital, OneGC, and the GC Digital Stanards, is the GC catching up with citizens expectations
- Banks are training investment bankers to code. From Financial Times and Wall Street Journal.
  - E.g. Citigroup traders get a 3 day Python course. JPMorgan Chase 300 analysts mandatory Python programming courses.
  - Source: https://www.techrepublic.com/article/why-big-banks-are-requiring-workers-to-learn-coding/
- Cars now have hundred millions lines of codes.
  - Source: https://www.technologyreview.com/s/508231/many-cars-have-a-hundred-million-lines-of-code/

--

### Change is the only constant, and its rate is accelerating

--

![Accessibily act infographic](./assets/images/slf-presentation-accessibility.jpg)

Note:

- Accessibility is one example. Cyber-Security, Information Management, responsible use of public funds can also be added to the list

--

### How are you handling those changes right now?

1. How often, per month, do your priorities change?
2. How often do you have to revisit your project estimates?
3. How many of your commitments depend on another team's ability to deliver?

Note:

- Ask 3 questions to the audience to get their impression
- Hypothesis of results in line with Public Service Employee Survey for ESDC CS category. Source: https://www.tbs-sct.gc.ca/pses-saff/2019/results-resultats/bq-pq/02/dem9424-eng.aspx
- In particular following questions:
  - Q17. I can complete my assigned workload during my regular working hours: CS5 = 33% rarely or almost never
  - Q18a. I feel that the quality of my work suffers because of... constantly changing priorities: CS4 = 48%, CS5 = 40% always or often
  - Q18d. I feel that the quality of my work suffers because of... unreasonable deadlines" CS4 = 38%, CS5 = 48% always or often
  - Q40. I feel that change is managed well in my department or agency: CS4 = 28%, CS5 = 26% somewhat or strongly disagree
  - Q74b. Overall, to what extent do the following factors cause you stress at work? Heavy workload, CS4 = 41$, CS5 = 52% large or very large extent
  - Q74c. Overall, to what extent do the following factors cause you stress at work? Unreasonable deadlines, CS4 = 27%, CS5 = 39% large or very large extent
  - Q74d. Overall, to what extent do the following factors cause you stress at work? Not enough employees to do the work, CS4 = 35%, CS5 = 29% large or very large extent

---

![Mandate: helping you navigate through change](./assets/images/slf-presentation-mandate.jpg)

Note:

- We want to enable IT to rapidely respond to changes
- We do this by reducing risks and enabling untapped strategic value of technology
- The idea here is accepting complexity and finding new methods of managing IT investements
- E.g. reduce project sizes, improve information flow between teams, make it less onerous to approve change, use emperical evidence to inform decisions
- E.g. of problems identified: AppDev SAs release process needing 13 separate teams and up to 46 interactions

---

![Approach: Diagnose, Recommend, Measure, Enable New Ways](./assets/images/slf-presentation-approach.jpg)

Note:

1. Diagnose
   - Work transparently with our users
   - clearly identify problems
   - Research best practices
2. Recommendations
   - Enabling new ways of thinking
   - Strategies and actions that work for both the working level and management
3. Measuring Progress
   - Progress with metrics, non-invasive
   - use emperical evidence to course correct
4. Improvement
   - Enabling new ways of working and ensuring we retire the old ones (Organizational Debt)

---

### Questions

---

### Supporting Slides

--

### Examples of topics

The following are examples of topics the team is exploring:

1. Using 20% of time to learn and improve
2. Reducing toil to focus on meaningful work
3. Transitioning from project to product management
4. Loose coupling of solutions to enable more independence for product teams

--

### References

1. [IT Strategy Map](https://sara-sabr.github.io/ITStrategy/strategy-summary.html)
2. [GC digital standards](https://www.canada.ca/en/government/system/digital-government/government-canada-digital-standards.html)
3. [GC Digital Operations Strategic Plan 2018-2022](https://www.canada.ca/en/government/system/digital-government/digital-operations-strategic-plan-2018-2022.html)
4. [Upcoming Policy on Service and Digital](https://www.tbs-sct.gc.ca/pol/doc-eng.aspx?id=32603)
5. [IITB Way Forward](http://dialogue/grp/IITB-DGIIT-Gov-New-Nouveau/Documents/Departmental%20IMIT%20Plan/19-20%20Plans/IITB%20Moving%20Forward%20v2.docx)
