presentations/en/Strategy-Continuous-Learning-Automating-Improving.md, before:

# IT Strategy for IITB

## Continuous Learning, Automation and Improving

### 20% Time

FY 2019-2020 Q4

---

## Goals

- Continuous learning, automation and improvement
- Work using agile methodologies
- Work in the open
- Reduce lead time for changes and delivery of services
- Recover faster incidents and errors
- Reduce frenquency of incidents and errors
- Show improvement

--

### Align with GC IT Direction

- [Digital Standards](https://www.canada.ca/en/government/system/digital-government/government-canada-digital-standards.html)
- [Digital Operations Strategic Plan: 2018-2022](https://www.canada.ca/en/government/system/digital-government/digital-operations-strategic-plan-2018-2022.html)
- [Policy](https://www.tbs-sct.gc.ca/pol/doc-eng.aspx?id=32603) and [Directive on Service and Digital](https://www.tbs-sct.gc.ca/pol/doc-eng.aspx?id=32601)
- [Mandatory Procedures for EA Assessment](https://www.tbs-sct.gc.ca/pol/doc-eng.aspx?id=32602)
- [Mandatory Procedures on APIs](https://www.tbs-sct.gc.ca/pol/doc-eng.aspx?id=32604)
- [Acceptable Network and Device Use](https://www.tbs-sct.gc.ca/pol/doc-eng.aspx?id=32605)

---

## Effective Immediatly - IT teams must

- Use 20% of time to learn, automate and improve
- Work using agile methodologies
- Work in the open
- Have access to resources and modern IT tools

---

### Use 20% of time to learn, automate and improve existing processes

- **Learn**
  - Read, take courses, attend events and conferences
  - Stay up to date on trends and technologies
  - Share knowledge with colleagues (IITB showcase, Dev CoP, ..)
- **Automate and improve**
  - Review existing processes and governance structure
  - Automate where possible
  - Show progress on automation and continuous improvements

> Make it a requirement in performance agreements of directors, managers and team leads

---

### Work using agile methodologies

#### Iterate and continually improve solutions, services and processes

- Invest in training on agile for managers and team leads
- Break down and prioritize work items
- Work in iterations or sprints
- Hold regular retrospectives
- Automate manual processes

---

### Work in the open

- Make ongoing work and backlog visible
- Promote the use of GitHub and Gitlab (SaaS)
- Support and use GCcode to share within the GC
- Make Sharepoint sites open to all ESDC by default

---

### Access to resources

#### Enabling learning, automation and improvement

- Create cloud and desktop sandboxes (labs) for experimentation
- Make it easy to request access
- Create a safe environment for experimentation
- Organize lunch between the DM and a team/project that recently "failed"

---

### Access to modern IT tools and devices

#### SaaS (Internet), mobile and desktop

- [Unblock access to specific SaaS for IITB employees](web-services-access.html)
- Invest in bandwidth, Data Loss Protection (DLP) and a document classification tool to enable more open access to Internet
- Add all approved software to Application Catalogue

---

### Hackathon

- 1-2 per year
- Promote learning, automation and improvement
- Digital, agile and cloud
- First one: 2020-02

> Organised by IT Strategy team

---

### Communications

- IT Strategy blogs, newsletters, tweets, ..
- Regular communications about:
  - Updated direction around learning and upcoming learning opportunities
  - Failures and lessons learned - link back to learning opportunities
  - Use of SaaS on ESDC network for unclassified information
  - Progress reports around continuous improvements and automation

---

### Initiatives to Support

- EA - [Grassroots Innovation Practice](http://dialogue/grp/IP/SitePages/Grassroots%20Innovation%20Practice.aspx)
- PMO - Proof of Concept (PoC)
- DTS - Agile, DevOps, Product management
- ITS - ESDC support for GCcode
- OneGC
- APIs

---

_fin

Commit message:

Add IT strategy will section (hackathon and comms)

presentations/en/Strategy-Continuous-Learning-Automating-Improving.md, after:

# IT Strategy for IITB

## Continuous Learning, Automation and Improving

### 20% Time

FY 2019-2020 Q4

---

## Goals

- Continuous learning, automation and improvement
- Work using agile methodologies
- Work in the open
- Reduce lead time for changes and delivery of services
- Recover faster incidents and errors
- Reduce frenquency of incidents and errors
- Show improvement

--

### Align with GC IT Direction

- [Digital Standards](https://www.canada.ca/en/government/system/digital-government/government-canada-digital-standards.html)
- [Digital Operations Strategic Plan: 2018-2022](https://www.canada.ca/en/government/system/digital-government/digital-operations-strategic-plan-2018-2022.html)
- [Policy](https://www.tbs-sct.gc.ca/pol/doc-eng.aspx?id=32603) and [Directive on Service and Digital](https://www.tbs-sct.gc.ca/pol/doc-eng.aspx?id=32601)
- [Mandatory Procedures for EA Assessment](https://www.tbs-sct.gc.ca/pol/doc-eng.aspx?id=32602)
- [Mandatory Procedures on APIs](https://www.tbs-sct.gc.ca/pol/doc-eng.aspx?id=32604)
- [Acceptable Network and Device Use](https://www.tbs-sct.gc.ca/pol/doc-eng.aspx?id=32605)

---

## Effective Immediatly - IT teams must

- Use 20% of time to learn, automate and improve
- Work using agile methodologies
- Work in the open
- Have access to resources and modern IT tools

---

### Use 20% of time to learn, automate and improve existing processes

- **Learn**
  - Read, take courses, attend events and conferences
  - Stay up to date on trends and technologies
  - Share knowledge with colleagues (IITB showcase, Dev CoP, ..)
- **Automate and improve**
  - Review existing processes and governance structure
  - Automate where possible
  - Show progress on automation and continuous improvements

> Make it a requirement in performance agreements of directors, managers and team leads

---

### Work using agile methodologies

#### Iterate and continually improve solutions, services and processes

- Invest in training on agile for managers and team leads
- Break down and prioritize work items
- Work in iterations or sprints
- Hold regular retrospectives
- Automate manual processes

---

### Work in the open

- Make ongoing work and backlog visible
- Promote the use of GitHub and Gitlab (SaaS)
- Support and use GCcode to share within the GC
- Make Sharepoint sites open to all ESDC by default

---

### Access to resources

#### Enabling learning, automation and improvement

- Create cloud and desktop sandboxes (labs) for experimentation
- Make it easy to request access
- Create a safe environment for experimentation
- Organize lunch between the DM and a team/project that recently "failed"

---

### Access to modern IT tools and devices

#### SaaS (Internet), mobile and desktop

- [Unblock access to specific SaaS for IITB employees](web-services-access.html)
- Invest in bandwidth, Data Loss Protection (DLP) and a document classification tool to enable more open access to Internet
- Add all approved software to Application Catalogue

---

## IT Strategy Will

- Organize a Hackathon
- Coordonnate communications of changes

--

### Hackathon

- 1-2 per year
- Promote learning, automation and improvement
- Digital, agile and cloud
- First one: 2020-02

--

### Communications

- IT Strategy blogs, newsletters, tweets, ..
- Regular communications about:
  - Updated direction around learning and upcoming learning opportunities
  - Failures and lessons learned - link back to learning opportunities
  - Use of SaaS on ESDC network for unclassified information
  - Progress reports around continuous improvements and automation

---

## Initiatives to Support

- EA - [Grassroots Innovation Practice](http://dialogue/grp/IP/SitePages/Grassroots%20Innovation%20Practice.aspx)
- PMO - Proof of Concept (PoC)
- DTS - Agile, DevOps, Product management
- ITS - ESDC support for GCcode
- OneGC
- APIs

---

_fin
